-- Piraeus Bank Nine-Month Profit Slumps on Bad-Loan Provisions, Windfall Tax
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2010-11-26T11:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/piraeus-pulls-offer-for-atebank-hellenic-postbank-update1-.html
Piraeus Bank SA , the fourth-biggest
lender in Greece, said profit dropped 94 percent in the first
nine months of the year after higher loan-loss charges and a
windfall tax.  Net income fell to 14 million euros ($18.6 million) from
219 million euros a year earlier, the Athens-based bank said
today in an e-mailed statement. Provisions for bad loans climbed
26 percent to 418 million euros.  Piraeus plans to raise 1.05 billion euros from an 800
million-euro rights offer in January and the sale of 250 million
euros of convertible bonds. The bank, which will ask investors
to approve the plan to bolster its finances at a Dec. 6 meeting,
said the share sale hasn’t been affected by Ireland’s decision
to seek a European Union bailout.  “We are on track,” Piraeus Managing Director  Alexandros Manos  told analysts on a conference call. “We have a standard
underwriting agreement which is in line with U.K. law.”  Reuters reported yesterday that the banks underwriting the
rights offer can abandon the deal because the Irish debt talks
with the EU can be used as a material adverse change. The
underwriting agreement says that material adverse changes in
nine countries including Ireland can allow the banks to cancel
their agreements, Reuters reported, without saying how it
obtained the information.  Barclays Capital, Credit Suisse Group AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley will manage the rights offer,
Piraeus said on Oct. 29.  Stress Tests  Piraeus came through European regulators’ stress tests in
July with a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6 percent, the minimum pass
mark. The share sale will boost the bank’s Tier 1 capital, a
gauge of financial strength, by about 200 basis points. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point. The bank’s Tier 1 ratio stood at
8.8 percent at the end of September, Piraeus said.  Greek banks including  National Bank of Greece SA , the
country’s largest lender, are seeking to replenish capital after
the country almost defaulted on its debt earlier this year,
leading many depositors to withdraw funds. Deposits at Piraeus
increased 356 million euros during the third quarter, after four
quarters of declines, the bank said.  The bank plans to reduce operating costs below the 893
million euros reported in 2009. That involves introducing a
voluntary sabbatical program for employees in Greece, under
which wages would be cut to 40 percent to 50 percent of existing
rates for as long as three years.  Piraeus fell 3.3 percent to 2.95 euros as of 12:20 p.m. in
Athens trading.  The bank had a 28 million-euro bill from a windfall tax,
introduced by the Greek government to help plug its budget
shortfall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Maria Petrakis  in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  