-- Italian Stocks: Fiat, Banco Popolare, Exor, Lottomattica Shares Are Active
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2010-09-30T15:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/pirelli-lottomatica-banco-popolare-unicredit-italian-equity-preview.html
Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index
gained 132.75, or 0.7 percent, to 20,505.2 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Milan, taking this month’s increase to 3.9 percent. The
gauge gained 6.2 percent in the third quarter, the first
quarterly increase in a year.  The following stocks were among the most active in the
Italian market today.  Banco Popolare SC  (BP IM) fell for a fourth day, losing 1.5
percent to 4.39 euros. Deutsche Bank AG cut its rating to
“hold” from “buy,” saying in a note that “the current macro
environment -- low interest rates, high cost of credit -- might
delay the implementation of Banco’s potential restructuring.”  The lender said in a statement that it hasn’t “examined”
any capital increase. The bank may sell assets to strengthen its
capital ratios, it said. At present, Banco Popolare has only
held talks to sell its stake in Banca Caripe SpA, it said.  Credito Emiliano SpA  (CE IM) rose 2.5 percent to 5.01
euros, snapping three days of losses. Equita Sim SpA reiterated
a “buy” rating on the stock, saying in a note that “our
recent follow-up meeting with Credem’s top management confirmed
that the sound second-quarter trends are largely replicable
going forward.”  Fiat SpA  (F IM) increased 3.2 percent to 11.32 euros, the
stock’s highest price since August 2008. Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  said third-quarter results were better than
predicted.  The company will probably raise its financial targets and
will make a full-year profit. Marchionne was speaking to
reporters in Paris today.  Exor SpA  (EXO IM), Fiat’s main shareholder, gained 1.7
percent to 17 euros.  Lottomatica SpA  (LTO IM) rose for the first time this week,
gaining 2.5 percent to 11.24 euros. Credit Suisse Group AG
initiated coverage of the lottery company with an “outperform”
rating and a price estimate of 14.52 euros. The brokerage cited
“an attractive differentiated mix of stable cash flows and
growth opportunities at an undemanding valuation relative to
peers.”  Pirelli & C. SpA  (PC IM) increased for a second day, rising
1.1 percent to 5.97 euros. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc said
in a note that “the key message from Pirelli at the Paris Auto
Show is that, unlike Michelin, the company is confident it will
not need to raise capital to fund its capex plans over the next
few years.” The brokerage reiterated its “buy” rating on the
tiremaker.  UniCredit SpA  (UCG IM) advanced 1.7 percent to 1.87 euros,
the shares’ first gain in three days. Italy’s biggest bank
appointed  Federico Ghizzoni  as its new chief executive officer.
Ghizzoni said that he was “honored” by the appointment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Francesca Cinelli  in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 