-- Poland's `Less Hawkish' Central Bank May Boost Bonds and Zloty, BNP Says
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2010-09-30T09:08:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/poland-s-less-hawkish-central-bank-may-boost-bonds-and-zloty-bnp-says.html
The Polish central bank’s “dovish
rhetoric” after the decision to leave interest rates at a
record low yesterday may boost foreign demand for bonds and
strengthen the zloty, according to BNP Paribas SA.  Investors cut their expectations for a rise in the main
rate this year by the most in more than five months after policy
makers left borrowing costs unchanged and said they saw limited
inflation. Forward-rate agreements used to speculate on rate
moves in three months slumped 7 basis points to 4.1250 percent
yesterday, the biggest drop since April, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The central bank’s “less hawkish stance could lure more
investors to the bond market, which should support the
currency,” emerging-market strategists at BNP in London wrote
in a note to clients today. The French bank “would look for
opportunities” to buy the zloty at around 4.00 per euro.  The zloty weakened 0.2 percent to 3.9835 against the common
currency as of 10:12 a.m. in Warsaw.  The central bank kept the main interest rate at 3.5 percent
for a 15th month as consumer-price growth remains at the lowest
level in three years. The economy is expanding at a “moderate”
pace with limited wage and inflationary pressures, policy makers
said in a statement explaining the decision.  The central bank
is not targeting any level or range for the zloty exchange rate,
Governor  Marek Belka  said at the press conference.  Investors have pared expectations for an interest rate
increase after raising them last week when retail sales grew
faster than expected and after policy makers said they had
considered raising borrowing costs by 50 basis points at the
meeting in August.  The three-month forward contracts are trading 38 basis
points above today’s three-month  Warsaw interbank offered rate 
of 3.74 percent, indicating the decline in market expectations
for a rate rise from half a percentage point on Sept. 27.  The yield on 5-year bonds has fallen 83 basis points so far
this year and traded little changed today at 5.08 percent, near
the lowest level in more than a month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Piotr Skolimowski  in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  