-- Future Polkomtel Bond Sales May Be in Zloty, CFO Says
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2010-09-30T13:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/poland-s-polkomtel-may-consider-more-zloty-bond-sales-cfo-moorhouse-says.html
Polkomtel SA, Poland’s largest
mobile phone operator, would consider further borrowing in zloty
if it sells more bonds to raise funds for expansion and debt
refinancing, Chief Financial Officer Martin Moorhouse said.  Polkomtel, whose minority shareholders include  Vodafone
Group Plc  and Polish refiner PKN Orlen SA, sold 1 billion zloty
($341 million) of five-year notes last month. The zloty-
denominated securities started trading on the Warsaw Stock
Exchange’s Catalyst market today, becoming the biggest debt
issue by a private company on the exchange.  “Looking at the level of interest we had from local
investors in our debt, we would first look at zloty bonds,”
Moorhouse said in an interview at the exchange, adding that the
company has “no current plans” for more debt sales.  BNP Paribas SA and the Bank Pekao SA unit of UniCredit SpA
managed the sale of the bonds under Polkomtel’s euro medium-term
note program. The company signed a deal with the banks in May
for the sale of bonds for as much as 1 billion euros ($1.36
billion) or its equivalent.  Polish pension funds bought 53 percent of the bonds, with
33 percent acquired by local investment funds and the rest by
other investors, Moorhouse said during a presentation at the
bourse. Investors got 40 percent of the amount of bonds that
they had bid for, according to Polkomtel.  Investment Grade  The 5.7-percent-coupon bonds maturing in September 2015
were priced to yield 170 basis points above the six-month Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate. Polkomtel is rated BBB+, the third-
lowest of 10 investment grades, by Standard & Poor’s.  No transaction on the paper had been made as of 2:12 p.m.
in Warsaw.  “It will take a while before we see trade on the secondary
market,”  Jacek Fotek , chief executive officer of BondSpot SA,
the Warsaw Stock Exchange unit that runs the Catalyst market,
said in an interview. “We’re still happy to attract such a big
issue because first we need to have some products on the shelf
to be able to trade.”  Polish companies are stepping up bond sales as banks
tighten lending following the global credit crisis. The  Catalyst 
market, created a year ago, lists 55 corporate bond issues with
a total value of 19.9 billion zloty, according to the exchange’s
website.  A joint venture of gas distributor Polskie Gornictwo
Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA and power utility Tauron Polska Energia
SA will set up in the first quarter a program to sell about 1
billion zloty of bonds, to finance construction of a 400-
megawatt power plant, Tomasz Karas, a member of the management
board of PGNiG’s power unit, said in Warsaw today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Pawel Kozlowski  in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  