-- Pomegranate Magnates Invest in ‘An Acre of Art’ in Los Angeles
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2010-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/pomegranate-magnates-invest-in-acre-of-art-at-los-angeles-county-museum.html
Stewart and Lynda Resnick own a
bushel of businesses including Fiji bottled water, POM Wonderful
pomegranate juice and Teleflora flower delivery. Now they have a
building named after them at the  Los Angeles County Museum of
Art .  The Lynda and Stewart Resnick Exhibition Pavilion opens to
the public Oct. 2. The white travertine and red steel structure
by Italian architect  Renzo Piano  is billed as the largest
naturally lit, open-plan museum space in the world. It cost $53
million to build, 85 percent of that donated by its namesake
entrepreneurs.  “I’m so excited,” said  Lynda Resnick , who with her
husband is the largest owner of fruit orchards in California.
“An acre of art!”  That the 45,000-square-foot (4,200-square-meter) pavilion
could get built in this economic climate is a testament to the
business acumen of the Resnicks and the fundraising skills of
the museum’s director,  Michael Govan , 47. Like many nonprofits,
the County Museum has suffered in recent years, with its
investment portfolio dropping 35 percent in the fiscal year that
ended June 30, 2009, and its donations falling to $29 million
from $129 million in the same period.  It was a different economy when Govan, previously director
of New York’s Dia Art Foundation, moved to Los Angeles in 2006.
He doubled the size of the museum’s expansion campaign to $450
million and increased the board by one-third to 49 members,
bringing in representatives of Los Angeles’s entertainment
community including producer  Brian Grazer  and former Warner
Bros. co-chief  Terry Semel .  Doubling Down  The Resnicks, board members since 1992, doubled their
pledge, shifting it from a new museum entrance to a building.  “I position it as an opportunity,” Govan said of his
fundraising technique. “I’ve never met a donor who wasn’t
happier after giving more.”  There were anxious moments for the director after the
world’s financial markets collapsed in late 2008. Govan said he
called Lynda Resnick then and asked if she and Stewart were
still committed to the project.  “Now more than ever,” Govan recalled her saying.  Stewart Resnick  began to build the family fortune by
founding a company that provided janitorial services to office
buildings and then selling it to ITT Corp., according to
“Rubies in the Orchard,” a business book that Lynda Resnick
wrote. The pair, who married in 1972, bought Teleflora in 1979
and began investing in citrus and nut farms soon afterward,
according to Rob Six, a spokesman for their Los Angeles-based
holding company, Roll International Corp.  FTC Complaint  The Resnicks founded the POM Wonderful brand to promote
pomegranates grown in their orchards. The Federal Trade
Commission filed a complaint against Resnicks on Sept. 27,
saying they made unsubstantiated health claims about their
products.  “POM Wonderful fundamentally disagrees with the FTC and
believes that the commission’s allegations against POM are
completely unwarranted,” the company said in a  statement . POM
Wonderful said it filed a lawsuit to contest the FTC claims.  At a preview of the museum building last week, Lynda
Resnick drew laughs from the crowd.  “The ethereal light is almost heavenly,” she said of the
pavilion’s interior. “I look like my own granddaughter.”  The building gets most of its illumination from Southern
California sunshine diffused by its louvered ceiling.  “Museums need to get refreshed,” Govan said. “We were
operating with a model that’s 100 years old.”  Three Shows  The  Resnick Pavilion  has no fixed interior walls, so it can
accommodate exhibitions of varying sizes. It opens with three
shows, of Olmec Mexican stone carvings, European dress from 1700
to 1915 and the Resnicks’ own collection of Old Master paintings
including works by Rubens, Boucher and Ingres.  Lynda Resnick said in an interview that she and Stewart
made their donation because they believed in Govan’s vision,
which calls for a renovation of a 300,000-square-foot former May
Co. department store that’s now part of its Wilshire Boulevard
campus and the installation of a  Jeff Koons  sculpture featuring
a locomotive hanging 161 feet in the air that will toot its horn
and blow smoke at regular intervals.  “We are literally hanging the industrial era” is how
Govan has described it.  Resnick said she resisted her urge to get involved in every
detail of the pavilion’s construction.  “I didn’t micro-manage, which is unusual for me,” she
said. Instead, she left the job to Govan. “He’s a person you
want to invest in, because you know he will get it done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Palmeri  in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 