-- Porsche's $275,000 911 Speedster May Sell Out by Late October
-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2010-09-30T15:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/porsche-s-275-000-911-speedster-may-sell-out-by-oct-31-duerheimer-says.html
Porsche AG  said the new limited-
production 911 Speedster may sell out by the end of October as
orders for the sports car grow “by the hour.”  Porsche , which is unveiling the fourth version of the 911
Speedster at the Paris Motor Show, will start delivering the
408-horsepower vehicle worldwide in November,  Wolfgang Duerheimer , the company’s development chief, said today in an
interview in the French capital. Production will be restricted
to 356 cars priced at $275,000.  “There’s a sizeable fan community for such vehicles in the
market,” Duerheimer said. “The new Speedster will be a big hit
for us.”  A global economic recovery has prompted luxury-car makers
including  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-
Benz division, the two biggest, to boost sales or earnings
forecasts this year, while Volkswagen AG’s Audi luxury brand is
targeting record deliveries. BMW and Audi said today that small-
cars they’re introducing will also sell out.  The 911 Speedster is part of a growth strategy that will be
overseen by Chief Executive Officer  Matthias Mueller , who took
Porsche’s top post at a ceremony last night, when CEO  Michael Macht  shifted to  Volkswagen  to be production chief. Porsche will
expand its lineup from 38 models across four vehicle lines in an
effort to almost double yearly sales to 150,000 cars and sport-
utility vehicles by about 2014, Duerheimer said.  Fifth Model Line  As Porsche  merges  with VW, Europe’s largest auto
manufacturer, the fifth model line will probably be a smaller
version of the Cayenne SUV, the Stuttgart, Germany-based
carmaker’s best-selling model, Duerheimer said. VW’s management
board may approve production of the SUV during the first half of
2011, and its initial sales target would be about 20,000
vehicles, he said.  “Our last two model lines were already pegged at that
sales level,” Duerheimer said. “That seems about right for the
next SUV too.”  Audi, which is based in Ingolstadt, Germany, will deliver
all 40,000 A1 compacts planned for production this year by mid-
October, Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Stadler  said at a press
conference at the show. The A1, which targets young
professionals and first-time customers, went on sale in Europe
last month priced at 15,800 euros ($21,500).  Mini Countryman  The 20,200-euro Countryman crossover built by BMW’s Mini
brand, which entered showrooms this month, won’t be available
again to customers in the U.K. until February,  Ian Robertson ,
BMW’s sales chief, said at a separate briefing.  Porsche  has yet to decide whether to build a smaller
version of its Boxster roadster as internal business studies
have raised questions about such a model’s profitability,
Duerheimer said.  “We’re not in the business of making cars for the sake of
it,” Duerheimer said. “Porsche is committed to making profits
on every new model. That seems more difficult” with a smaller
Boxster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andreas Cremer  in Paris via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net ;
 Cornelius Rahn  in Paris via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 