-- Posen Backed by British Chambers in Call for BOE Stimulus to Aid Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2010-10-01T09:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/posen-is-right-in-call-to-add-bank-of-england-stimulus-bcc-s-kern-says.html
The British Chambers of Commerce gave
its backing to Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  after he
advocated more stimulus to aid economic growth.  “Adam Posen is right,” BCC Chief Economist  David Kern 
said in an interview at the Loan Market Association’s Syndicated
Loans Conference in London yesterday. “All the evidence that we
have suggests growth is slowing. Possibly as early as November
we will get more quantitative easing.”  Posen this week said Bank of England officials should
discuss more bond purchases as he sought to “elicit reactions”
from the public and businesses on his views. Kern’s verdict puts
a lobby group representing 100,000 companies on Posen’s side at
the bank’s Oct. 7 meeting, which may produce a three-way split
if  Andrew Sentance  keeps up his bid to raise interest rates.  “Even though I acknowledge the longer-term risks of
inflation, in the short term, the main risks are either Japan or
a double dip,” Kern said, referring to the deflation
experienced in Japan. “We will grow for some time but it will
be weaker growth.”  Posen said in a Sept. 28 speech that “monetary policy
should continue to be aggressive about promoting recovery, and,
subject to further debate, I think further easing should be
undertaken.” He added in an interview broadcast on the
Yorkshire Post’s website yesterday that more stimulus isn’t “a
foregone conclusion.”  Factory Growth  An index of U.K. manufacturing, based on a survey of
factory purchasing managers, fell to a 10-month low in
September. The gauge dropped to 53.4 from 53.7 the previous
month, the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply and
Markit Economics said in an e-mailed statement.  Kern said that the central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee
may add to the bond-purchase plan by 25 billion pounds ($39
billion) in November, with another 25 billion-pound increase in
February. That would bring the bank’s total  bond holdings  to 250
billion pounds.  Sentance has called for an increase in the benchmark
interest rate from a record low of 0.5 percent at each decision
since June to tame consumer prices. Inflation exceeded the
government’s 3 percent limit for a sixth month in August, stoked
by the weakness of the pound and higher commodity costs.  UBS Forecast  UBS AG today said the Bank of England is likely to resist
Sentance’s bid to raise interest rates for longer. UBS economist
 Amit Kara  cut his rate forecast for 2011 to 1 percent from 2
percent and said policy makers will start increasing the
benchmark in the third quarter of instead of the first quarter.
Kara still predicts no further stimulus by the bank.  “On balance, we do not expect the MPC to engage in another
round,” he said in a note. “This not least because we expect a
global economic recovery and because of persistent elevated
inflation in the U.K.”  Kern said that  economic growth  is a bigger concern than
inflation. The spending squeeze by Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government to curb the record budget deficit adds to
the case for further stimulus, he said.  “I support the fiscal consolidation but if you support it
the logic is you’ve got to do everything else to make sure this
doesn’t push you down,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Svenja O’Donnell  in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  