-- Posen Says BOE Panel May Still Persuade Him Against More Stimulus for U.K.
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2010-09-30T07:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/posen-says-bank-of-england-panel-may-persuade-him-against-more-stimulus.html
Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said his colleagues may talk him out of pushing for more
stimulus for the economy after he said there was a case to
increase asset purchases to aid growth.  “It’s time for the committee to debate whether additional
quantitative easing would be needed,” Posen said in an
interview with  the Yorkshire Post  broadcast on the newspaper’s
website today. “They’d have to decide first whether it would be
needed, which by no means is a foregone conclusion, and in fact
they may even talk me out of it.”  Posen’s call to consider more stimulus this week raised the
prospect of a three-way split at the Oct. 7 meeting at a time
when his colleague  Andrew Sentance  is advocating higher  interest 
rates  to tame inflation. The bank has kept its key rate at a 
record low of 0.5 percent and bought  200 billion pounds  ($317 
billion) in bonds since March 2009 to aid the recovery.  “We clearly can’t cut interest rates further” so “the
next step would be more quantitative easing of the kind the bank
pursued in 2009,” Posen said. “Part of the reason I put this
stuff out in public was to elicit reactions from the general
public, from commentators, from business people as well as my
colleagues on the MPC. I may get persuaded that I’m premature.”  Posen said that his concern isn’t necessarily of a further
contraction in the economy.  “It’s not that I’m worried about a double dip,” he said.
“It’s not that I’m worried about another crisis, it’s more this
long-term concern” of “stagnation.”  ‘Undershoot’ Risk  “Looking forward, to me the risks are that we are going to
undershoot, that we’re going to get  lower inflation than target 
pretty consistently over the next couple of years,” he said.
The bank’s goal is to get annual price gains of 2 percent.  Sentance made his first call for a rate increase in June.
Minutes of the committee’s meetings since then suggest officials
have been moving toward adding stimulus.  “There are people on the committee who are not necessarily
going public right now who have differing views,” Posen said.
“There was a lot of internal discussion before I or Andrew went
public.”  Posen said that there was no “animus” or “breakdown” on
the committee because of the split on monetary policy.  “This isn’t like a coalition government, or your Miliband
brothers, where if there’s a split, there’s some sort of drama
involved or dysfunction,” he said, referring to  Ed Miliband ’s
success in beating his brother David to the leadership of the
opposition Labour Party. “This is a committee that’s trying to
make the right call.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Stirling  in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  