-- Post-Enron Audit Watchdog Shows Consumer Bureau What to Avoid, Turner Says
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2010-09-30T20:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/post-enron-audit-watchdog-shows-consumer-bureau-what-to-avoid-turner-says.html
In 2002, Congress sought to make
sure publicly traded companies couldn’t deceive investors the
way  Enron Corp.  did. So it created a watchdog to monitor the
accountants that audit the corporations and gave it a gawky
name:  the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board .  In eight years the board has brought 32 disciplinary cases,
only one of which was against one of the so-called big four
accounting firms. It has also approved six standards governing
how auditors must do their work. Eight others adopted in August
await Securities and Exchange Commission sign-off.  Some of the board’s advocates find that slender record
underwhelming, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Oct. 4
issue.  “They need to be more forceful in setting the audit
standards, and even more importantly, they need to be more
forceful in enforcement,” says  Edward Ketz , an accounting
professor at Pennsylvania State University. “It just doesn’t
seem they are doing enough.”  Lynn E. Turner , a former SEC chief accountant, said the
board is an example of how not to do reform, and warns that the
new  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  must avoid becoming
like the PCAOB -- a comfortable perch for highly paid
bureaucrats hamstrung by political disputes.  The five-member PCAOB offers one of Washington’s most
lucrative jobs. Congress stipulated that its salaries must be
competitive with the private sector. The chairman earns $672,676
a year and board members make $546,891. President  Barack Obama ,
by comparison, makes $400,000, members of Congress get $174,000,
and SEC Chairman  Mary L. Schapiro  receives $165,300.  Media Attention  The board -- call it the sinecure qua non -- gets little
media attention or congressional oversight, having sent an
official to testify once in the last three years. The lone case
against a major accounting firm came in 2007, when the board
fined Deloitte & Touche LLP after a former partner failed to
prevent a pharmaceutical company from overstating revenue. The
firm paid $1 million without admitting or denying guilt.  “It’s not necessarily as taxing as a high-profile, highly
scrutinized political appointment,” said  Cynthia A. Glassman , a
former Republican SEC commissioner. “It’s one of those
positions that is very well paid.”  The record belies board member  Charles D. Niemeier ’s 2002
pledge that the PCAOB would be “extremely proactive” in
setting standards. Niemeier, who has continued to serve even
though his term lapsed in October 2008, has one of three seats
that Schapiro must fill.  Legal Cloud  The board’s showing isn’t entirely its fault. It had been
under a legal cloud since 2006, when a Nevada accounting firm
sued it, claiming the watchdog wasn’t constitutional. That put
the board in limbo; the SEC even stopped replacing members whose
terms had expired.  The Supreme Court rejected the challenge in June, and the
ruling set off lobbying by people interested in filling the
vacancies.  A letter is circulating seeking the backing of securities
lawyers for  John J. Huber , an attorney with the law firm Latham
& Watkins, two people who have seen the letter say.  Kathleen Connell , California’s former controller, has sought support from
business groups for a slot, a senior employee of one of the
groups says.  John H. Sturc , a Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher partner,
has expressed interest in a seat, according to SEC officials.  Connell declined to comment. Huber and Sturc didn’t return
calls seeking comment. SEC spokesman  John Nester , who wouldn’t
comment on any names, said the commission “is well on its way”
to filling the three vacancies.  Secret Cases  A congressional requirement that cases remain secret until
they are resolved has also damaged the board, said  Daniel L. Goelzer , interim chairman since July 2009. Accountants have an
incentive to fight enforcement efforts, he says, because their
cases remain confidential as long as they resist.  “Nobody who isn’t an employee here knows how many cases
we’ve brought or how many have involved Big Four firms,” said
Goelzer, who wants Congress to change the law.  Mark W. Olson , who preceded Goelzer as chairman, said it’s
unfair to judge the PCAOB on how many “scalps it puts on the
wall” because that’s not the regulator’s purpose.  “There’s an extra level of supervision that far exceeds
what the industry had before, which was essentially self-
policing,” he said.  Turner, the former SEC official, sees parallels with
 Elizabeth Warren , who came up with the idea for the consumer
bureau yet is unlikely to head it because of political
objections. The PCAOB’s first chairman, former FBI and CIA
director  William Webster , also got embroiled in politics, which
prevented the board from meeting its mandate to protect
investors, says Turner, who is on a PCAOB advisory panel.  “I fear the consumer bureau is suffering the same, and
instead of being the crown jewel of the Dodd-Frank bill, will
become a cheap zirconium imitation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jesse Westbrook  in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 