-- ProtoStar, Centaur, South Bay, Gloucester, Boston Generating: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2010-09-30T11:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/protostar-centaur-south-bay-gloucester-boston-generating-bankruptcy.html
ProtoStar Ltd., after its
creditors’ committee reached an agreement with secured lenders,
still faces opposition at an Oct. 6 confirmation hearing for
approval of the settlement and its Chapter 11 plan.  The committee had sued secured lenders, challenging the
validity of their liens. The tentative settlement allowed the
bankruptcy judge to approve the disclosure statement explaining
the resulting Chapter 11 plan.  Creditor Kiskadee Communications (Bermuda) Ltd. filed an
objection to confirmation of the plan. It contends the
settlement unfairly allocates fruits of the settlement among the
ProtoStar companies. Kiskadee also argues that the settlement
improperly benefits members of the creditors’ committee.  For a description of the plan and the recovery by
creditors, click here to see the Sept. 1 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Hamilton, Bermuda-based ProtoStar, the former provider of
digital television and broadband service in Asia, and five
subsidiaries filed under Chapter 11 in July 2009, listing assets
of $528 million and debt of $463 million. The debt included $10
million on a first lien, plus $183 million in 12.5 percent and
18 percent secured notes and $242 million on the so-called
Credit Suisse facility secured by all the assets.  The case is In re ProtoStar Ltd., 09-12659, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Watch List  InSight Health Candidate for Second Reorganization  InSight Health Services Corp.  may find itself in Chapter 11
a second time. Standard & Poor’s said yesterday that it expects
a “distressed exchange offer” from the provider of diagnostic
imaging services in 30 states.  S&P reported that revenue for Lake Forest, California-based
InSight declined 13 percent from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in the same period fell 26 percent, S&P said.  InSight’s auditors said they have substantial doubt about
the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The
qualification of financial statements by itself will become a
violation of a loan covenant, S&P said. S&P lowered the
corporate rating to CC.  Insight’s parent company,  InSight Health Services Holdings
Corp. , began a so-called prepacked Chapter 11 petition in May
2007 and completed the reorganization in July of that year. The
plan paid creditors in full, except holders of the $194.5
million in notes, who were given 90 percent of the stock.
Existing shareholders retained 10 percent.  InSight had 62 fixed and 104 mobile facilities at the end
of the June fiscal year. The balance sheet at June 30 was upside
down with assets of $141 million and total liabilities of $321
million.  The parent company’s stock traded on Sept. 28 at less than
10 cents a share through the over-the-counter bulletin board.  Harrisburg City Council Votes to Hire Bankruptcy Advisers  Harrisburg, the capital city of Pennsylvania, will hire
bankruptcy advisers, as the result of a vote by the city council
which overrode advice from the mayor.  To read Bloomberg coverage, click here.  Harrisburg this year has already missed $8 million in
payments on more than $210 million in bonds sold to finance an
incinerator that converts trash to energy. The city has $43
million owing before the year’s end.  The bonds are insured by  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.   Updates  Orleans Disclosure Approved, Confirmation on Nov. 16  Orleans Homebuilders Inc . persuaded the bankruptcy judge to
approve the disclosure statement at a hearing yesterday, court
records show. The confirmation hearing for approval of the
Chapter 11 plan is set for Nov. 16.  Orleans builds homes and condominiums in seven states. The
plan filed in August would to give stock and new secured debt to
revolving credit lenders owed $234 million. Unsecured creditors
are to have lawsuit recoveries and share proceeds from sales of
properties after secured debt is paid.  The disclosure statement explaining the plan estimates that
the revolving credit lenders should recover between 67 percent
and 87 percent if they vote for the plan. Unsecured creditors
should see between 3.4 percent and 5.25 percent if they vote
“yes” as a class.  The plan reduces debt from more than $400 million to less
than $200 million, the company said in a statement. Orleans
negotiated the plan with holders of more than 80 percent of the
secured debt.  The Chapter 11 filing in March by Bensalem, Pennsylvania-
based Orleans followed maturity of the revolving credit the
month before. About $325 million was owing to the banks at
maturity, not including $15 million on letters of credit. The
March 31 balance sheet listed assets of $591 million against
total liabilities of $560 million.  The case is In re Orleans Homebuilders Inc., 10-10684, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Hedge Fund Paulson Buys Tousa’s Western Business  Liquidating homebuilder  Tousa Inc.  was authorized by the
bankruptcy court to sell most of the assets in Arizona, Nevada
and Colorado to RERF Acquisition Co., an affiliate of New York-
based hedge fund Paulson & Co. The price was $42.4 million.  Tousa operated in the western U.S. under the name Eagle
Homes. Paulson bid to buy almost 8,300 unstarted lots and 22
model homes. Tousa decided that selling the western operation in
bulk was preferable to disposing of the properties piecemeal
over several years.  Tousa has a hearing scheduled on Oct. 27 for approval of
the disclosure statement explaining the Chapter 11 plan filed in
July. For a summary of the plan, click here for the July 20
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. The plan assumes appellate courts
uphold a judgment the creditors’ committee won last October when
the bankruptcy judge ruled that a bailout and refinancing in
mid-2007 of a joint venture in  Transeastern Properties Inc .
resulted in fraudulent transfers. The appeal will be argued in
October in U.S. District Court.  Tousa filed for bankruptcy reorganization in January 2008.
The Hollywood, Florida-based company listed assets of $2.1
billion against debt totaling $2 billion. At the outset of the
reorganization it was 67 percent-owned by  Technical Olympic SA .  The case is In re Tousa Inc., 08-10928, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  Centaur Wants More Exclusivity if Reorganization Plan Fails  Casino and racetrack operator Centaur LLC wants the
bankruptcy judge to extend the exclusive right to solicit votes
on a reorganization until Dec. 31 in case the court doesn’t
approve the Chapter 11 plan at a tentatively scheduled
confirmation hearing on Dec. 13.  The exclusivity motion is Centaur’s third. A hearing on the
motion will be held on Nov. 2.  Centaur said in its papers that the bankruptcy court
tentatively gave approval of the disclosure statement at a Sept.
7 hearing. The disclosure statement explains the amended plan
filed Sept. 3.  The judge, according to Centaur, said that solicitation of
the vote must begin by Oct. 15 so a confirmation hearing can be
held Dec. 13.  Centaur will conduct an auction on Oct. 20 to sell a
planned racetrack 55 miles from Pittsburg named  Valley View
Downs and Casino . The sale would be approved along with
confirmation of the Chapter 11 plan.  Centaur was authorized in August to sell the Fortune Valley
Hotel & Casino 40 miles west of Denver to Luna Gaming Central
City LLC for $7.5 million cash plus a $2.5 million note.  Centaur’s plan promises an 83.3 percent recovery for
holders of $405 million in first-lien debt by giving them a
combination of mostly new stock and debt. Holders of $207
million in second-lien debt would realize a 1.4 percent
recovery, according to the disclosure statement accompanying the
plan.  For details on the plan, click here for the July 26
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Centaur LLC and 12 affiliates filed Chapter 11 petitions in
March. Affiliates Centaur PA Land LP and Valley View Downs LP
filed for bankruptcy reorganization in October 2009 to keep the
Pennsylvania project alive. All the companies are subsidiaries
of privately-owned Centaur Inc., which isn’t in bankruptcy.  The March filings listed assets of $584 million and debt of
$681 million. The newer cases resulted from the failure to make
payments due in October 2009 on a $382.5 million first-lien debt
and a $192 million second-lien credit. The companies have horse
racing and gambling facilities in five markets in Indiana and
Colorado.  The companies own Hoosier Park, a casino and horse
racetrack, in Anderson, Indiana, along with three off-track
betting parlors in Indiana. Fortune Valley Hotel & Casino in
Central City, Colorado, was sold. The companies generated
revenue of $277.5 million in 2009.  The newer case is Centaur LLC, 10-10799, and the first case
was In re Centaur PA Land LP, 09-13760, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  South Bay Expressway Committee’s Motion Denied Without Hearing  South Bay Expressway LP , the owner of a nine-mile toll road
near San Diego, defeated a motion by the creditors’ committee
without even filing opposing papers or attending a hearing. U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge  Louise DeCarl Adler  issued a decision two days
after the committee filed its papers saying the “proposed
motion is a waste of time and money.”  In its motion on Sept. 22, the committee had sought to
supplant South Bay in a pending lawsuit to determine the
validity of as much as $240 million in mechanics’ liens. Adler
effectively denied the motion two days later when she said “the
proposed motion makes no sense.” She went on to explain how
South Bay hadn’t given up the right to challenge mechanics’
liens. The company is only precluded from attempting to void
secured financing.  The expressway began operating in November 2007. It owes
$340 million on a first-lien construction and term loan plus
another $170 million first-lien obligation on a loan provided by
the U.S. Department of Transportation. Ownership of the toll
road is controlled by affiliates of Sydney, Australia-based
 Macquarie Group Ltd.   The case is In re South Bay Expressway LP, 10-04516, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District California (San Diego).  Gloucester Engineering to Be Acquired by Blue Wolf in Plan  Gloucester Engineering Co. Inc. , a producer and servicer of
plastic film extrusion equipment, filed a reorganization plan
yesterday in which the secured lender, Blue Wolf Capital Fund II
LP, will take ownership in exchange for debt.  The disclosure statement explaining the plan says that
unsecured creditors, owed $13.6 million, should see a recovery
of 3.8 percent to 7.8 percent by splitting $500,000 cash and
other consideration.  Blue Wolf will convert $6 million of financing for the
Chapter 11 case into a new exit loan. Blue Wolf’s secured claim,
totaling almost $13.5 million, will convert into equity.  The plan is supported by the creditors’ committee, the
company said in a statement.  Gloucester converted an involuntary Chapter 7 petition into
a Chapter 11 reorganization in June.  Based in the Massachusetts town of the same name,
Gloucester had $41 million revenue in 2009. The company was
acquired in October 2007 in a management buyout.  The case is In re Gloucester Engineering Co. Inc., 10-
12967, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  Jeweler Shane Co. Plan Includes Full Payment Over Time  Shane Co. , a jewelry retailer based in Centennial,
Colorado, scheduled a confirmation hearing for Nov. 10 when it
hopes the bankruptcy judge will approve a Chapter 11 plan
proposing to pay secured and unsecured creditors in full, over
time.  Chief Executive Officer Thomas M. Shane is deferring
payment on more than $30 million in loans he made to the company
he controls. By providing full payment to creditors, Mr. Shane
and family trusts will retain ownership.  Mr. Shane will defer principal payments on a $10.5 million
secured loan he advanced to finance the Chapter 11 case. He will
likewise defer payments on $20 million in pre-bankruptcy secured
loans until unsecured creditors have been paid.  Some of the deferred payments to unsecured creditors will
be secured by a second lien on inventory. Mr. Shane will loan
the company half of any tax refunds he receives as a result of
the company’s net operating losses. To read other Bloomberg
coverage, click here.  Shane is currently operating 20 of the 23 jewelry stores it
had on filing under Chapter 11 in January 2009.  The company filed formal lists showing assets for $130
million and debt of $103 million, including $31.4 million owed
on secured claims.  The case is Shane Co., 09-10367, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
District of Colorado (Denver).  Daily Podcast  Tribune, Lehman, Anna Nicole Smith in Supreme Court: Audio  The settlement for  Tribune Co.  that may not be a
settlement, an appeal of an important ruling for Wall Street
regarding  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , and an upcoming Supreme
Court bankruptcy ruling involving the late Playboy model  Anna Nicole Smith  are covered in the bankruptcy podcast on the
Bloomberg terminal and Bloomberglaw.com. To listen, click here.  Briefly Noted  Visteon Set to Emerge from Chapter 11 by Tomorrow  Visteon Corp . cleaned up the last remaining details
standing in the way of implementing by tomorrow the
reorganization plan that the bankruptcy judge approved in an
Aug. 31 confirmation order. Yesterday, the judge approved a
settlement with former parent  Ford Motor Co . To read about the
Ford settlement and Visteon’s plan, click here and here. For
Bloomberg coverage on yesterday’s hearing, click here.  Visteon filed for reorganization in May 2009, listing
assets of $4.6 billion against debt totaling $5.3 billion. Sales
in 2008 were $9.5 billion, including $3.1 billion to Ford. It
was spun off from Ford in 2000. Van Buren Township, Michigan-
based Visteon at the outset owed $2.7 billion for borrowed
money, including $1.5 billion on a secured term loan, $862
million on unsecured bonds, and $214 million on other debt
obligations.  The case is In re Visteon Corp., 09-11786, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Medical Staffing Network Completes Sale to Lenders  Medical Staffing Network Holdings Inc. , a Boca Raton,
Florida-based provider of temporary nursing services, completed
the sale of the business to secured lenders in exchange for
debt, according to a statement released yesterday. The sale was
approved Aug. 23.  For details of the sale and the company’s debt structure,
click here for the Aug. 25 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. Medical
Staffing sought Chapter 11 relief in July to sell the assets to
the lenders.  The case is In re Medical Staffing Network Holdings Inc.,
10-29101, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Florida
(West Palm Beach).  Boston Generating’s Auction Faces Creditor Opposition  Some creditors of Boston Generating LLC contend that the
company is moving too quickly with an auction for five electric
generating plants in the Boston area. Unless outbid at auction,
 Constellation Energy Group Inc.  would buy the facilities for
$1.1 billion. A hearing will be held on Oct. 4 to decide on
auction and sale procedures. To read Bloomberg coverage, click
here.  The case is In re Boston Generating LLC, 10-14419, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Advance Sheets  First Circuit BAP Rejects Brunner on Student Loans  The Bankruptcy Appellate Panel in Boston ruled on Sept. 21
that the so-called totality of the circumstances test should be
adopted in the First Circuit for deciding when a student loan
can be discharged.  The totality test emanated from the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit in St. Louis. Nine circuits follow the
so-called Brunner test first enunciated by the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York.  The appellate panel said that most of the lower courts in
the First Circuit have opted for the totality of the
circumstances test. The appellate panel ruled that Brunner’s
requirement of showing “certainty of hopelessness” is not
required by the language of the governing statute, Section
523(a)(8) of the Bankruptcy Code.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  James B. Haines Jr.  concurred,
although he said it was unnecessary to decide which test the
circuit should adopt.  The case is Bronsdon v. Educational Credit Management Corp.
(In re Bronsdon), 10-009, First Circuit Bankruptcy Appellate
Panel (Boston).  Electronic Filing Fault No Excuse for Late Complaint  The inability to upload a complaint to the bankruptcy court
using the electronic filing system won’t prevent dismissal of
the complaint when it was filed after the deadline, U.S.
District Judge  Dora L. Irizarry  in Brooklyn, New York, ruled on
Sept. 27.  A creditor was facing a May 12 deadline for filing a
complaint objecting to discharge of a debt owed by a bankrupt.
The creditor’s lawyer was unable to file the complaint
electronically before the deadline because the lawyer had failed
to put his new credit card number into the court’s billing
system.  The lawyer mailed the complaint, which arrived in the
courthouse one day after the deadline.  Irizarry held that the complaint was properly dismissed for
being late. She noted that the lawyer could have delivered the
complaint to the courthouse on time.  The case is Yesh Diamonds Inc. v. Yashaya, 09-2016, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bill Rochelle  in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 