-- Protesting Ecuador Police Surround Correa, Force Closure of Quito Airport
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l   a n d   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2010-09-30T17:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/protesting-ecuador-police-surround-correa-force-closure-of-quito-airport.html
Ecuadorean police protesting a
government plan to trim their benefits shut down the Quito
airport and hurled water at President  Rafael Correa  as he tried
to mediate the dispute.  A group of police surrounded the presidential palace,
burning tires and clashing with security forces, images on the
 Telesur  television channel showed. About 150 police took over
the airport and the Mariscal Sucre police base, according to
television station TeleAmazonas.  “Here I am. If they want to kill me, go ahead,” President
Rafael Correa, 47, said in a speech at the police station while 
being heckled by protesters. “I won’t back down.”  Ecuadorean police are demanding higher salaries after
 congress  last night approved changes to the country’s public
service law that would limit expected increases.  Gen. Luis Ernesto Gonzalez, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, said the armed forces may patrol the streets to
“guarantee external and internal security.” Looters were
attacking banks, malls in the city of Guayaquil, CRE Radio
reported.  “We’re faced with a process of destabilization of the
national government and democracy in Ecuador,” Interior
Minister  Miguel Carvajal  said, according to the EFE news
service.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Ecuadorean dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 10.36 percent at 12:33 p.m. New York
time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index. Ecuador’s so-called
spread has widened 23 basis points this quarter, while the index
has narrowed 58 basis points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nathan Gill  in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  