-- Prudential Profits From Slain Soldiers With Help From Taxpayers
-- B y   D a v i d   E v a n s
-- 2010-09-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/prudential-profits-from-slain-soldiers-with-help-from-taxpayers.html
When  Prudential Financial Inc .
invests the death benefits owed to survivors of soldiers killed
in battle, the money comes from a source with deep pockets: the
U.S. government.  After a U.S. soldier dies in combat -- including the more
than 4,000 service members who have been killed in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan  -- the Department of  Veterans Affairs  sends
Prudential the full amount of each family’s life insurance
coverage, usually $400,000.  The government has paid Prudential $1.7 billion for these
benefits since 2003, when the war in Iraq began, according to
information provided by the VA, Bloomberg Markets magazine
reports in its November issue.  Prudential holds that taxpayer money, invests it and reaps
the gains.  Here’s how it works: If survivors request a lump-sum
payment of the death benefit, Prudential opens a so-called
retained-asset account, a quasi-checking account that allows
families to draw money when they’re ready to spend it.  Until the money is used, it stays in Prudential’s corporate
account. There, the insurer invests the funds, mostly in bonds,
making returns as much as eight times higher than what it is
paying out to holders of the retained-asset account.  What this means is that Prudential is investing -- and
profiting from -- death benefits owed to the families of slain
soldiers, using money provided by the U.S. government.  ‘Sweetheart Deal’  “They have what appears to be a nice sweetheart deal with
the federal government,” says Michael Powers, professor of risk
management and insurance at  Temple University  in Philadelphia.
“This strikes me as the same sort of thing as those classic
stories of the government paying hundreds of dollars for a
wrench or a toilet seat.”  Ninety-five percent of survivors paid by Prudential ask for
lump-sum payments, the VA says. Since 1999, Prudential has sent
out more than 60,000 Alliance Account checkbooks, instead of
checks, covering more than $7 billion in death benefits when
families asked for full payouts.  On average,  Prudential  holds about 16 percent of survivors’
money for at least a year, according to Prudential. As of June
30, the company had $662 million belonging to military families
in its general account, the VA says.  Prudential’s general account earned 4.2 percent in the
first half of 2010, regulatory filings show. The company paid
survivors holding Alliance Accounts 0.5 percent in the same
period.  ‘Ill-Conceived Giveaway’  “It sure looks like the VA provided an ill-conceived
giveaway, or that Prudential played the VA like a fool,” says
Steven Schooner, co-director of the Government Procurement Law
Program at  George Washington University Law School  in  Washington . “It’s a lose-lose proposition for everyone but
Prudential.”  Prudential spokesman  Bob DeFillippo  says the professor is
wrong.  “Prudential assumes the vast majority of mortality risk
for the participants,” he says. “We also assume all of the  investment risk .” He declined to elaborate on what Prudential’s
insurance and investment risks are.  The VA says it is taking steps to better help survivors.  “The VA is working to ensure that all aspects of the
Alliance Account and all choices to the beneficiary are made
absolutely clear and that all facts concerning the
administration of the accounts continue to be fully transparent
and disclosed,” says  Thomas Lastowka , the VA director for
insurance.  Probes Launched  Since July 28, when Bloomberg News first reported that
Prudential sent checkbooks instead of checks to survivors
requesting lump-sum payouts, state and federal officials have
demanded the retained-asset system be investigated and reformed.
The VA itself launched a probe of its life insurance program the
day the first story was published.  The next day,  New York  Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo 
launched what he called a “major fraud  investigation ” of
Prudential and other life insurers over their use of retained-
asset accounts. Since then, Cuomo’s office has issued subpoenas
to Prudential and at least 12 more insurance companies.  The insurance departments in  Georgia  and New York have also
opened probes. The U.S. House  Oversight and Reform Committee 
plans to hold hearings into Prudential’s use of retained-asset
accounts to pay money owed to fallen soldiers’ survivors.  New VA Policy  The VA announced on  Sept. 14  that Prudential had agreed to
halt its practice of automatically sending checkbooks to
survivors who ask to be paid with a  lump sum . Instead, the
insurer will offer families the option of receiving the full
amount by check.  Prudential also said it would no longer include any
official agency seal on Alliance Account checks, forms and
correspondence -- to avoid the appearance that they have been
endorsed by the federal government. Prudential will also make
clear that its account isn’t protected by the  Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.   The reason why taxpayers pick up the tab for all life
insurance benefits owed to the families of soldiers killed in
combat goes back 45 years.  Before the  Vietnam  War, the U.S. government ran its own
life insurance  programs , with separate plans specifically
created for World War I, World War II and the  Korean War . By
1956, the military had closed to new enrollments all of the
programs insuring combat soldiers.  Insuring Soldiers  To provide coverage for troops being sent into harm’s way
in  Vietnam , Congress adopted a law in September 1965 -- proposed
by the life insurance industry -- creating the Servicemen’s
Group Life Insurance program.  The plan was modeled after a group life insurance system
for nonmilitary federal  employees  that Congress enacted in 1954.
That one is administered by  MetLife Inc .  The 1965 law required that, for the first time, the federal
government would work with a life insurance company to cover war
deaths. Congress also put into the law another mandate endorsed
by the industry, which was concerned about the  casualty rate 
among soldiers in Vietnam.  The Life Insurance Association of America endorsed a
provision guaranteeing that the government pay the full costs to
the insurance company for death benefit payments due to families
of soldiers killed in battle. The private company would not be
on the hook for payouts owed to any soldiers slain in combat.  No-Bid Contract  Nine days after President  Lyndon Johnson  signed the bill
into law on  Sept. 29, 1965 , the VA awarded a no-bid contract to
Prudential. The program is set up so that the government deducts
premiums from soldiers’ pay. The government holds the money for
a short while and then sends it to Prudential.  The insurer uses that money to pay benefits for deceased
military members who didn’t die in combat. Prudential puts cash
not immediately needed to pay claims into a reserve  fund . The
company invests that money and puts all the gains back into the
reserve.  Today, the VA’s contract with Prudential covers 6 million
active service members, their families and veterans. Lastowka
says his agency isn’t considering putting the contract up for
bid. Since 1965, the VA has paid Prudential annually to cover
administrative  expenses , most recently $4 million in 2009.  Before Prudential started using the Alliance Account in
1999, the insurer’s government contract wasn’t a moneymaker, VA
Chief of Staff  John Gingrich  says.  ‘Make Money’  “Where Prudential has the option to make money is the
Alliance Account,” Gingrich says. Alliance Accounts hold
survivor money for families of both soldiers killed in war and
those who died in other circumstances.  The first taxpayer money made its way into Alliance
Accounts in 2003, as soldiers died in Iraq and Afghanistan,
according to VA documents.  After taxpayers covered $18 million that year, annual
payments to Prudential peaked at $460.9 million in 2007.
Taxpayers sent Prudential $213.2 million in 2009. The seven-year
total of public funds going to the company was $1.7 billion, 95
percent of which went into Alliance Accounts.  The VA doesn’t reimburse Prudential for benefits owed to
families of soldiers who died noncombat deaths, but it does help
the insurer in another way. The agency provides a financial
cushion.  To do that, it has set soldier premium payments at levels
high enough to build up a so-called contingency fund, which
Prudential manages. The VA says that fund held about  $835 
million as of June 30, 2009.  Too Large  The contingency fund is too large, Lastowka says. VA
actuaries have determined it should hold about $230 million
less, he says. As a result, the VA lowered soldiers’ premium
payments by 7 percent to $26 a month starting on July 1, 2008.  Even with that change, the contingency fund provides
Prudential more backup than VA actuaries recommend.  “It’s a very low-risk situation,” Lastowka says. In the
45-year history of the VA insurance program with Prudential, the
money in the contingency fund has always been sufficient to
cover all of the claims the company had to pay out.  In 1965, before Congress created the new insurance program,
the  American Legion  tried to convince lawmakers not to contract
with an insurance company.  The nation’s largest veterans’ service organization,
chartered by Congress in 1919, expressed concern that the
government would set and collect premiums, do record keeping and
pay for war deaths -- so there would be no need for an insurance
company.  ‘Widows and Orphans’  “Nothing remains, really, for the commercial companies to
do except realize a profit,”  American Legion  executive John
Corcoran said at a hearing on Sept. 9, 1965. “Indemnifying the
lives of our servicemen and providing a degree of protection to
their parents, widows and orphans is not a business transaction;
it is the responsibility of the government.”  Peter Gaytan , executive director of the American Legion in
Washington, says the organization’s position hasn’t changed:
“We have to overhaul the system so nobody can make profits off
soldiers who died in action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Evans in  Los Angeles  at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at   jneumann2@bloomberg.net . 