-- Prudential Shouldn't Profit From Deaths of Servicemen, American Legion Say
-- B y   D a v i d   E v a n s
-- 2010-09-30T15:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/prudential-shouldn-t-profit-from-dead-gis-american-legion-says.html
Prudential Financial Inc.  “should
be honored” to administer death benefits for the U.S. military
and shouldn’t profit when a soldier dies, American Legion
Executive Director Peter Gaytan said today.  Families should benefit fully and insurers such as
Prudential shouldn’t “take advantage” of interest earned from
death-benefit accounts, Gaytan said today in an interview on
Bloomberg Television.  “The death of a serviceman should not lead to a profit,”
Gaytan said. “That interest should not go to anybody who’s
administering the benefit, like Prudential.”  Insurers have been criticized by government officials since
Bloomberg Markets reported in July that carriers profit by
holding $28 billion owed to beneficiaries in so-called retained-
asset accounts.  Prudential received about $4 million last year from the
Department of Veterans Affairs to administer the death-benefit
program, which covers about six million soldiers and their
families. It held $662 million of survivors’ money in its
 general account  as of June 30, according to the VA.  Prudential pays interest on the accounts and earns money by
investing the funds. The accounts provide checkbook-like access
to beneficiaries and aren’t federally insured. Newark, New
Jersey-based Prudential has said the accounts allow
beneficiaries to withdraw all their money whenever they choose.  General Account  The insurer currently pays 0.5 percent interest to
survivors on that money. Prudential invests their money in its
general account, which earned more than 4 percent in the first
half of 2010.  In 1965, before Congress created the new insurance program,
the  American Legion  tried to persuade lawmakers not to contract
with an insurance company. John Corcoran, a Legion executive,
testified against hiring of a private insurer at a congressional
committee considering the plan.  “Indemnifying the lives of our servicemen and providing a
degree of protection to their parents, widows and orphans is not
a business transaction,” said Corcoran. “It is the
responsibility of the government.”  Jimmie Foster, the Legion’s national commander, today said
the group’s position hasn’t changed.  “The American Legion still believes that its 1965 position
is still the right one today,” he said in a written statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Evans  in Los Angeles at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  