-- AIG Japan Units to Earn Less for Buyer Prudential on Lower `Risk Appetite'
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2010-09-30T15:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/prudential-says-investments-at-aig-japan-units-will-earn-less.html
Prudential Financial Inc.  said the
two Japanese life insurance units it’s buying from American
International Group Inc. will earn less investment income
because of the acquirer’s lower tolerance for risk.  AIG Star Life Insurance Co. and AIG Edison Life Insurance
Co. would have earned about $100 million less on investments
last year if Prudential were managing the portfolios,  Mark Grier , vice chairman of the Newark, New Jersey-based insurer,
said today on a conference call with analysts. Prudential will
be initiating a “repositioning of the investment portfolio in a
manner more consistent with our risk appetite,” Grier said.  AIG, brought to the brink of collapse in 2008 when
investments soured, is now selling units to repay a U.S. rescue.
The company accumulated $1.3 billion of Greek sovereign debt in
a unit it’s selling to  MetLife Inc. , the only U.S. life insurer
bigger than Prudential. In that deal, announced in March, AIG
agreed to shoulder as much as $450 million of losses tied to
bets it made on Japanese commercial mortgages.  Stock Falls  Prudential fell $2.49, or 4.4 percent, to $54.03 at 10:58
a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The insurer
was the biggest decliner on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
Prudential said today it plans to issue $1.3 billion in equity
to help fund the AIG deal.  Prudential, led by Chief Executive Officer  John Strangfeld ,
is buying Star and Edison from New York-based AIG to expand in
the world’s second-largest life insurance market. The insurer,
which entered Japan in 1987, will pay $4.2 billion in cash and
$600 million in debt. It expects pretax expenses of $500 million
over five years to integrate the businesses and annual savings
of $250 million, according to a slide presentation.  “Pru has been a very large Japanese life insurer,” said
 Randy Binner , an analyst with FBR Capital Markets, who has an
“outperform” rating on Prudential shares. “They think they
know that market very well and they’re comfortable there. They
see an opportunity to build.”  Prudential and New York-based MetLife, which have competed
for U.S. sales for more than a century, are extending their
rivalry in Japan as bailed-out rivals retreat. MetLife’s
acquisition of AIG’s American Life Insurance Co. will add more
than $7 billion of annual revenue in Japan to a non-U.S.
business that reported $5.5 billion of revenue in 2009.  AIG Bailout  AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche , 66, agreed with U.S. regulators
today on a plan to repay the company’s bailout. The Treasury
Department will convert its preferred stake of about $49.1
billion for 1.66 billion shares of common stock and then sell
the holdings in the open market, AIG said in a statement. The
Prudential deal is slated to be Benmosche’s second-biggest
divestiture after the $15.5 billion Alico sale.  “The latest sale is evidence of how AIG is steadily but
surely carrying on with its restructuring plan,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , a chief fund manager in Tokyo who helps oversee $6
billion at Shinkin Asset Management Co. “The question would be
how Prudential will be able to utilize the acquired units in a
country where growth is limited.”  Japan accounted for about 17 percent of the world’s life
insurance sales last year, according to a  study  by Swiss
Reinsurance Co. Premium volume was $399 billion in 2009, down
0.8 percent when adjusted for inflation, Swiss Re said. In the
U.S., the world’s biggest market, premiums dropped 15 percent to
$492 billion, according to the Zurich-based reinsurer.  Bank of America Corp., Barclays Plc, Nomura Holdings Inc.
and Perella Weinberg Partners LP are advising Prudential on the
deal. Debevoise & Plimpton LLP is legal counsel. AIG is getting
advice from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and Nagashima Ohno &
Tsunematsu are legal counsel  Strangfeld is spending capital that Prudential accumulated
after the 2008 credit crunch interrupted insurers’ traditional
sources of funding. Prudential slashed its  dividend  two years
ago and in 2009 sold a stake in a securities brokerage for $4.5
billion. As the crisis eased last year, Strangfeld, 56, also
sold equity and debt.  MetLife Expands  MetLife CEO  Robert Henrikson , 63, sold stock in 2008 and
agreed to the firm’s biggest deal to expand beyond a U.S. life
insurance market that he described this year as “relatively
slow-growth.” MetLife is picking up  Alico’s businesses  from
Argentina to Russia to Qatar, including the Japan operation that
Chief Financial Officer  William Wheeler  called a “cash
machine.”  Henrikson and Strangfeld shunned government bailouts last
year, while rivals  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc.  and
 Lincoln National Corp.  took U.S. capital injections. Hartford,
based in the Connecticut city of the same name, was hurt by
investment declines and retreated from Japanese and European
markets to concentrate on U.S. operations. Philadelphia-based
Lincoln sold a U.K. unit and an asset manager.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Frye  in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 