-- Treasuries Rise, Extend Quarterly Gain, Before GDP, Business Activity Data
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   Y a s u h i k o   S e k i
-- 2010-09-30T07:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/treasuries-set-for-third-quarterly-gain-before-gdp-business-activity-data.html
Treasuries  rose, extending a third
quarterly gain, before reports today that economists said will
show the economy cooled and business activity slowed,
strengthening the case for more credit-easing measures.  U.S. bonds extended their advance after Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded Spain’s credit rating, boosting demand for
the safest assets. Treasuries returned 2.7 percent since the end
of June, and 8.8 percent this year, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index. The Federal Reserve will buy debt
due from February 2021 to August 2040 today, according to its
 website , as part of its measures to keep borrowing costs low.  “Every bit of negative news is seen as further indication
that quantitative easing will come and that’s what is keeping
yields extremely low,” said  Michael Markovic , a senior fixed-
income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “A lot
of expectation is priced in.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note dropped 2 basis
points to 2.49 percent as of 8:17 a.m. in London, according to
BGCantor Market Data. The price of the 2.625 percent security
maturing in August 2020 gained 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 6/32.  Spain had its credit rating cut to Aa1 from AAA, Moody’s
said today. Ireland will not hold auctions scheduled for October
and November and will return to the bond markets “in the normal
way” in 2011, Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said in an
e-mailed statement today.  The U.S. economy expanded at a 1.6 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, after growing 3.7 percent in the previous
three months, the Commerce Department will report today
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The figure
would match the estimate issued last month.  Slower Recovery  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. will say
today its  business barometer  fell to 55.5 for September from
56.7 in August, a separate Bloomberg survey showed.  “The pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed
in recent months,” Fed policy makers said in their statement on
Sept. 21, when they kept the benchmark interest rate near zero.
“Household spending is increasing gradually, but remains
constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower
housing wealth, and tight credit.”  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices, narrowed 2 basis points to 1.79 percentage
points. The spread was as wide as 2.49 percentage points in
January and as low as 1.47 percentage points in August. The
five-year average was 2.10 percentage points.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is scheduled to testify before
the Senate Banking Committee today, after policy makers this
week cast doubt on an immediate increase in the central bank’s
debt purchase.  ‘Little Risk’  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said yesterday
he opposes more monetary expansion to support the economy in
part because he sees “little risk” of deflation. Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren  said further large-scale purchases of
securities would depend on the outlook and incoming data.  “Investors turned wary about the Fed’s willingness to
undertake additional easing,” said  Kazuaki Oh’e , a debt
salesman in Tokyo at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the
nation’s fifth-largest lender. “Unless the Fed shows a stronger
signal for additional stimulus, bonds may struggle in extending
gains from current levels.”  The central bank retained its stance from its Aug. 10
policy meeting of keeping its portfolio of securities stable at
about $2 trillion to keep money from draining out of the
financial system.  ‘Some Costs’  “I would prefer not to engage in further asset purchases
at this time,” seeing “little gain” and “some costs,”
Plosser said in remarks prepared for a speech yesterday to the
Greater Vineland, New Jersey, Chamber of Commerce.  Additional purchases of bonds are “more situational,”
Rosengren said in response to audience questions after a speech
in New York. “We’re going to have to be looking at our
forecast,” he said.  Treasuries extended gains after the  Central Bank of Ireland 
said  Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  and Allied Irish Banks Plc may need
as much as 14.4 billion euros ($19.5 billion) in extra capital.  Ireland has pumped  22.9 billion  euros to date into Anglo
Irish since it seized the lender in January 2009 as its bad
loans soared following the collapse of the country’s decade-long
real-estate bubble. The government has injected a total of about
33 billion euros into Irish banks and building societies.  The U.S. Senate confirmed two nominees for the Fed Board,
including  Janet Yellen  as vice chairman, clearing the way for
the new members to vote on a potential second round of
unconventional monetary easing.  ‘More Forceful Advocate’  The chamber approved Yellen, currently president of the San
Francisco Fed, and  Sarah Bloom Raskin , Maryland’s commissioner
of financial regulation.  Yellen, 64, and Raskin, 49, will join the Fed’s Board of
Governors as policy makers debate taking action to reduce
borrowing costs and help lower unemployment persisting near a
26-year high.  “The ranks of the policy makers who are more willing to
act and believe that quantitative easing can be effective just
went up,” said  Vincent Reinhart , the Fed’s monetary-affairs
director from 2001 to 2007. Yellen, who has participated in Fed
policy meetings this year without voting, may become a “more
forceful advocate” for action now that her confirmation is no
longer pending, Reinhart said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Lukanyo Mnyanda  in London at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
 Yasuhiko Seki  in Tokyo at 
 Yseki5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  