-- Treasuries Rise for Third Straight Quarter on Fed Easing View
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2010-09-30T20:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/treasuries-pare-gains-after-u-s-jobless-claims-fell-more-than-forecast.html
Treasuries rose for a third
consecutive quarter as reports showing a stalled U.S. economic
recovery encouraged speculation that the Federal Reserve will
step up quantitative easing.  U.S. securities have returned 2.7 percent since the end of
June in the longest stretch of quarterly advances since the
first three months of 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Bonds were little changed today as reports showed
signs of strength in the job market and regional manufacturing.  “Every piece of economic number is being viewed in the
prism of QE2 or no QE2,” said  Kevin Flanagan , a fixed-income
strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney in Purchase, New York.  The yield on the 10-year note gained less than 1 basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.51 percent at 4:35 p.m. in
New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The price of the
2.625 percent security maturing in August 2020 dropped 1/32, or
31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 101.  U.S. debt pared losses today as some investors purchased
longer-term securities to increase the duration of portfolios to
match benchmarks at the end of the month. Government debt
extension increased by 0.06 year for Oct. 1, lower than the 0.12
year for Sept. 1, according to Barclays Plc. Duration measures
how sensitive a bond’s price is to changes in yield.  “There are positive flows for month-end,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of interest rates in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald
LP, one of the 18 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Treasury Returns  Treasuries have returned 8.8 percent this year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The debt of Group of
Seven nations has gained 2.3 percent since the end of June and
6.6 percent in 2010.  U.S. debt dropped earlier today as economic reports showed
gross domestic product grew at a faster pace in the second
quarter than the government previously estimated, initial
jobless claims fell last week more than analysts forecast and
business activity as measured by the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. unexpectedly accelerated this month.  “As the numbers keep getting better, people don’t know
what the Fed’s reaction is going to be,” said  Michael Franzese ,
managing director and head of Treasury trading at Wunderlich
Securities Inc. in New York. “If the Fed is nervous about
implementing a huge amount of stimulus, they run the risk
quantitative easing won’t be shock-and-awe. It may be death by a
thousand cuts.”  Plosser’s View  Treasuries dropped yesterday as Philadelphia Fed President
 Charles Plosser  said he opposes more monetary expansion to
support the economy in part because he sees “little risk” of
deflation. Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  said further
large-scale purchases of securities would depend on the outlook
and incoming data.  “The commentary by Fed officials altered the pricing of a
shock-and-awe outcome to a more calculated response ‘if needed’
at the next FOMC get-together,”  John Spinello , chief technical
strategist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., a primary
dealer, wrote in a note to clients. Policy makers are next due
to decide on policy on Nov. 3.  The Federal Open Market Committee announced in its
statement following the Sept. 21 meeting that it’s prepared “to
provide additional accommodation if needed to support economic
recovery and to return inflation, over time, to levels
consistent with its mandate.”  Consumer prices excluding food and energy increased in
August for a fifth month at an annual rate of 0.9 percent,
matching the slowest year-over-year rate of gains since 1966,
the Labor Department said Sept. 17.  Break-Even Rate  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the maturity known as the
break-even rate, was 1.84 percentage points today, compared with
a low this year of 1.47 percentage points reached in August. The
five-year average is 2.10 percentage points.  The central bank retained last week its stance from its
Aug. 10 meeting of keeping its portfolio of securities stable at
about $2 trillion to keep money from draining out of the
financial system. The Fed bought $2.2 billion of Treasuries
maturing from August 2021 to February 2040 today, increasing the
total purchased since Aug. 17 to $36.812 billion.  Bonds rose earlier today as Moody’s Investors Service
lowered Spain’s credit rating by one level to Aa1 and Ireland
prepared to take majority control of Allied Irish Banks Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susanne Walker  in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  