-- Workflow Management, Affiliates Enter Bankruptcy With Plan to Reorganize
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2010-09-30T14:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/relizon-texas-marketing-provider-files-for-bankruptcy-with-debt-plan.html
Workflow Management Inc. , a
provider of marketing services also known as  WorkflowOne , filed
for bankruptcy with a restructuring plan to pay creditors and
exit court protection.  The company, based in Dayton, Ohio, listed assets and debt
of as much as $500 million in Chapter 11 documents filed
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Norfolk, Virginia. 
Twenty affiliates also sought bankruptcy protection, including 
its Norfolk-based parent WF Capital Holdings Inc., the Relizon
Company and Relizon (Texas) Ltd.  “Today’s actions are an important step forward in the
ongoing transformation of our company,” Workflow Management’s
Chief Executive Officer,  Dave Davis , said yesterday in a
 statement . “We are using this legal process for the narrow
purpose of restructuring our balance sheet, and it should be
virtually seamless to customers, suppliers and employees.”  Workflow, with roots going back more than 140 years, will
continue operations while under court protection, and plans
on completing its restructuring and paying all creditors in 
full, according to the statement.  The company is the result of the 2005 combination of
Workflow Solutions LLC, which started as Newport News Printing
in 1912, and the Relizon Company, which began as Reynolds and
Reynolds in 1866, according to its  website .  The company has about 2,400 employees in the U.S., serving
a client base of about 12,000 from its 19 business service
centers, according to the website.  Workflow and its affiliates’ 30 largest unsecured creditors
are owed about $43.2 million, court papers show. Branch Banking
& Trust Co. is the biggest, owed $20 million, and the Carlyle
Group, the world’s second-largest private-equity firm, is the
second-biggest with a claim of about $12.5 million.  The lead case is In re Workflow Management Inc., 10-74617,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Bathon  in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 