-- Renault, Opel Forecast Sluggish European Car Sales on Joblessness, Cuts
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 2010-09-30T13:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/renault-opel-forecast-sluggish-european-car-sales-next-year.html
Renault SA , General Motors Co.’s
Opel division and  Ford Motor Co.  may struggle to raise car sales
in Europe next year as unemployment and government budget cuts
discourage consumers from making large purchases.  The region’s automotive market may shrink by 2 percent in
2011 after a contraction this year, Renault Chief Executive
Officer  Carlos Ghosn  told journalists today at the Paris Motor
Show. Renault in July forecast a European market slump this year
of as much as 9 percent.  Industry sales  in the region remain
“very weak,” Opel chief  Nick Reilly  said today.  Germany, France and the U.K. are among governments planning
to cut spending next year, prompting nationwide strikes across
Europe in the past few months and demonstrations in a dozen
cities yesterday. Spanish Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  said on
Sept. 24 that the country’s unemployment rate in 2011 will
average 19.3 percent, an increase from an 18.9 percent forecast.  “If you’re a public employee, you’ve got to be wondering
if you’re still going to have a job at the end of the year,”
 Arthur Maher , head of European automotive forecasting at J.D.
Power in Oxford, England, said today by phone. “That might make
you hold onto your old car rather than getting a new one. Income
growth and confidence are the main drivers of car purchases.”  Eight-Month Decline  European car sales in the eight months through August fell
3 percent to 9.3 million vehicles, according to  European
Association of Automobile Manufacturers  figures.  Industry executives in the region have predicted the
decline will accelerate as state incentives for vehicle sales
expire. The drop may amount to 7 percent, making 2010 a “low
point” for Europe’s car market, PSA Peugeot Citroen CEO
 Philippe Varin  said today on BFM Radio in France.  The industry is “on a slow recovery,” Ford of Europe
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Odell  said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview at the Paris show. The Dearborn, Michigan-
based carmaker may discount models in Europe to match
competitors’ pricing, he said, without providing details.  Europe is the only large auto market forecast to shrink
this year.  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker, is
projecting that its sales in China may overtake its European
deliveries in 2010, executives said.  Volkswagen AG , Europe’s
biggest, increased the outlook for global industry sales in 2010
to growth of 6 percent to 7 percent from a 5 percent estimate.  VW Performance  VW may outperform competitors in 2010 and may reach 10
million annual vehicle sales earlier than its target of 2018,
 Christian Klingler , the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company’s sales
chief, said today at the Paris show.  Overcapacity in Europe’s auto industry will amount to 5.5
million cars at the end of 2010,  Calum MacRae , head of
PricewaterhouseCoopers’ Autofacts forecasting unit, said at the
show yesterday. That compares with 6.5 million vehicles of
excess capacity in January that MacRae estimated.  “Carmakers tend to be careful with their forecasts,  Sven Diermeier , an analyst at Independent Research GmbH in Frankfurt,
said today. “We saw that last year as well.” Even so, “there
is significant production overhang. Particularly manufacturers
with already weak margins will have to lower capacity.”  To contact the reporter on this story
 Cornelius Rahn  in Paris via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
 Laurence Frost  in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 