-- Republican Groups Outspend Parties to Sway U.S. Elections
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-09-30T04:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/republican-groups-outspend-parties-to-sway-u-s-elections.html
Republican-leaning outside groups,
under fire from Democrats, spent more to sway the Nov. 2
congressional elections during September’s first four weeks than
the two political parties combined, federal records show.  The groups -- including Crossroads GPS, advised by
Republican strategist  Karl Rove , and the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce -- spent more than $33 million, mainly on advertising.
That compares with less than $20 million spent by the Republican
and Democratic congressional fundraising committees.  Many of the organizations are registered as nonprofits that
don’t disclose their donors, spurring protests from Democrats
including President  Barack Obama  and Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus , who yesterday asked the Internal Revenue
Service to probe whether the groups are violating tax laws.  Baucus’s call for an investigation is a “warning shot”
designed to curtail groups that “may currently be acting as
pass-through entities for campaign cash,” said  Rogan Kersh , a
public policy professor at New York University in New York City.
“It’s unlikely that the IRS will produce a detailed report
before the elections.”  Baucus, of Montana, said his committee may hold hearings or
draft legislation in response to what the IRS finds.  ‘Hiding’ Behind Cloak  “Special interests hiding behind the cloak of independent
nonprofits threatens the transparency our democracy deserves and
does a disservice to fair, honest and open elections,” Baucus
said in a statement issued by his office.  Obama has used two of his recent weekly addresses to blast
Republicans for blocking legislation that would make groups
engaged in political activity report their contributions.  Outside organizations so far have focused most of their
fire on Senate races, particularly in California, Colorado,
Florida, Missouri, Nevada and Pennsylvania, according to reports
they filed with the  Federal Election Commission .  As a trade group, the  Chamber  of Commerce doesn’t have to
disclose its donors even though it is playing a major role in
the campaign, with plans to spend $75 million. Crossroads GPS
said it engages in issue advocacy and grassroots lobbying.
Neither of the Washington-based groups has to disclose its
contributors to the FEC, though they do have to report some
political activity.  Boxer, Bennet  The chamber has spent about $4 million on ads targeting
Democratic Senators  Barbara Boxer  in California and  Michael Bennet  in Colorado, among others. Crossroads GPS on Sept. 28
reported spending almost $1.2 million on television ads to
oppose Democratic candidates  Robin Carnahan  in Missouri and  Joe Sestak  in Pennsylvania and Senator  Patty Murray  in Washington.  Some of the organizations “seem to be testing the limits
of what they can do, so pushback was inevitable,” said  Linda Fowler , a government professor at Dartmouth College in Hanover,
New Hampshire.  The groups themselves say they are acting legally.  “We comply with all rules and regulations,” said  J.P. Fielder , a spokesman for the chamber, the nation’s biggest
business lobbying group. “The chamber has been and will
continue to be engaged in the issue debate.”  Crossroads GPS  spokesman  Jonathan Collegio  said “the law
is clear, and we follow it carefully.”  Addressing Advantage  The outside spending is making up for a $20 million cash
advantage the three main Democratic Party fundraising committees
had over their Republican counterparts heading into September.
In the first four weeks of September, the Democratic committees
spent more than $11 million, compared with $8.2 million by their
Republican Party rivals.  Democratic-leaning outside groups spent less than $6
million in that same time period on activities that must be
reported to the FEC.  Some of the Republican-leaning groups have focused more on
House races.  Americans for Job Security , an Alexandria,
Virginia-based group that says it promotes free markets and
“pro-paycheck public policy,” has reported spending about $4
million in House districts in Indiana, New Mexico, New York,
North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia.  “Our primary purpose is still issue advocacy,” said
Stephen DeMaura, the group’s president. “Our goal is to talk
about issues, whether through issue advocacy or electioneering
communications or independent expenditures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Kristin Jensen  in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 