-- Rich Nations Will Feel the Pinch of Budget-Tightening, IMF Says in Report
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2010-09-30T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/rich-nations-will-feel-the-pinch-of-budget-tightening-imf-says-in-report.html
Countries planning budget cuts are
most likely to feel the pinch when other nations make reductions
simultaneously and they don’t have leeway to cut interest rates,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  After the global recession, with their public debt matching
the size of their economy by the end of the year “virtually all
advanced economies will face the challenge of fiscal
consolidation,” the IMF said in parts of its World Economic
Outlook report released today. Such tightening “typically
reduces output and raises unemployment.”  Advanced economies that saw their fiscal gap widen as the
global recession squeezed revenue are now seeking to outline
tightening plans. In Europe, which set up an emergency aid
mechanism worth almost $1 trillion in May to halt a sovereign-
debt crisis,  Portugal  and Ireland are now struggling to convince
investors that they can regain control of their finances.  The IMF said its findings “suggest that budget
deficit cuts are likely to be more painful if they occur
simultaneously across many countries, and if monetary
policy is not in a position to offset them.”  Lower borrowing costs can help cushion the effect of
tightening on growth, the IMF said in the report released in
Washington, though it’s not an option available to “a number of
countries” that currently have interest rates close to zero.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its benchmark interest
rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008,
while the  European Central Bank’s  benchmark rate has been 1.0
percent since May 2009.  The IMF on Sept. 27 said the U.K.’s fiscal consolidation
plan “will help rebalance the economy” while benefits from the
plan “outweigh the expected costs in terms of adverse effects
on near-term growth.”  Limiting Impact  A decline in the real value of a country’s currency also
helps limit the impact on growth by boosting net exports, though
this cannot work for too many countries at the same time,
according to a part of the report released today. In addition,
countries in a monetary union also have less scope for a
currency depreciation, it said.  European countries from Greece to Spain have adopted
austerity measures to reduce their budget shortfall, including
public-sector wage cuts and increased taxes.  Tightening-measures that target spending cuts have a softer
impact on growth than tax increases, mainly because central
banks provide less monetary stimulus when indirect taxes
threaten to fan inflation, it said.  Still, “fiscal consolidation is likely to be beneficial
over the long term,” the IMF said. “In particular, lower debt
is likely to reduce real interest rates and the burden of
interest payments.”  Separately, the IMF urged policy makers to engage in
changes of their economies to  boost productivity  and enhance
demand for imports.  Protectionist Tendencies  Officials should also take steps to improve access to
credit, continue to constrain protectionist tendencies and avoid
exchange-rate volatility, the IMF said. A conclusion of the Doha
Round of global trade talks would also help revive global trade.  In the six months straddling the last quarter of 2008 and
early 2009, the annualized drop in world imports was more than
30 percent, the IMF said. That compared with a nearly 6 percent
drop in global output during the same period.  Should sovereign debt crises erupt, imports would
deteriorate and world trade would be slower to recover, the
report said.  The recovery of import demand in the U.S. and much of
Western Europe may be “even more protracted than suggested” by
their relatively weak projected recoveries in output, largely
because those economies also experienced financial crises, had
weak external balances and suffer from contracting or slowing
credit, the IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sandrine Rastello  in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
 Bob Willis  in Washington 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 