-- Sanlam Opposes ArcelorMittal South Africa's Stake Sale to Jacob Zuma's Son
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   R o n   D e r b y
-- 2010-10-01T07:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/rmb-to-oppose-arcelormittal-empowerment-deal-business-day-says.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. , a
unit of the world’s largest steelmaker, is facing opposition
from the biggest South African-based insurer to a plan to sell a
9.1 billion rand ($1.3 billion) stake to a group of black
investors that includes President  Jacob Zuma’s  son.  “I don’t think the deal has legs to stand on in front of
the regulator,” said  Shoaib Vayej , an equity analyst who helps
manage $57.4 billion at Sanlam Investment Management. The fund
manager, a unit of  Sanlam Ltd. , owns about 1 percent of the
steelmaker and is “negative on the deal,” Vayej said by phone
from Cape Town yesterday.  ArcelorMittal South Africa said on Aug. 10 that it plans to
sell 26 percent of its business to a group of black investors
called the Ayigobi Consortium, in which  Duduzane Zuma , son of
the South African president, owns a stake.  The steelmaker can’t comment because full details of the
planned transaction are still to be sent to shareholders, said a
spokesman, who declined to be named in line with company policy.  South Africa, which has mineral resources valued at $2.5
trillion by Citigroup Inc., passed laws forcing companies to
sell stakes to black investors to make up for apartheid, the
segregation policy that ended in 1994.  “There’s been a lot of pressure” on the ArcelorMittal
South Africa agreement, said Alana Bond, managing director of
 Bravura Consulting , which advises companies on black-empowerment
legislation, by phone from Johannesburg yesterday.  ‘Public Pressure’  “There’s been lots of public pressure and news coverage
showing that people are against the deal,” she said.  Other shareholders in the Ayigobi Consortium include
Imperial Crown Trading Ltd., a company which was set up to
secure disputed rights at Sishen, South Africa’s largest iron
ore deposit.  Imperial, whose biggest shareholder  Jagdish Parekh  is in
business with Duduzane Zuma, won the Sishen mine right after
ArcelorMittal South Africa missed a renewal deadline. This
sparked a battle with  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. , which used the loss
of the right to cancel a deal to supply the steelmaker with most
of its ore needs at a discount.  The steelmaker has since agreed to buy Imperial for 800
million rand on condition that Kumba, which owns the rest of
Sishen, isn’t successful in its bid to overturn the award of the
rights to Imperial.  Rand Merchant Bank, a unit of FirstRand Bank Ltd., will
also oppose ArcelorMittal South Africa’s planned empowerment
transaction, Business Day reported yesterday, citing a person at
RMB Asset Management it didn’t identify.  ‘Initial Thoughts’  The fund manager, which owns 0.025 percent of the
steelmaker’s shares, said the deal doesn’t meet its requirements
for a black economic empowerment transaction, the Johannesburg-
based newspaper said.  Deon Gouws , head of RMB’s fund management unit, didn’t
return a phone message left at his office by Bloomberg News.  The  Old Mutual Investment Group of South Africa , which owns
about 6.7 percent of ArcelorMittal South Africa, has “relayed
our initial thoughts to management,” said  Anwaar Wagner , head
of resources, by phone from Cape Town yesterday.  The transaction may be subject to U.S. Securities &
Exchange Commission rules and any wrongdoing could scupper the
deal, Wagner said. He declined to give more detail.  In August, the National Union of Metalworkers of South
Africa, the biggest labor union at  ArcelorMittal South Africa ,
demanded the government intervene and cancel the deal. On Aug.
16 Johannesburg’s Business Day published an editorial describing
the transaction as “the most cynical empowerment deal ever
constructed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
 Ron Derby  in Johannesburg at 
 rderby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  