-- Rolls's New CEO May Face Engineer Glut as Jet Projects Dry Up
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-10-01T15:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/rolls-royce-s-new-ceo-may-face-engineer-glut-as-jetliner-projects-dry-up.html
Rolls-Royce Group Plc ’s future chief
 John Rishton  may find his biggest challenge will be to keep his
engineers busy beyond 2013, when Airbus SAS and Boeing Co. take
a respite from new jetliner projects.  Rishton, 52, takes over as chief executive officer at Rolls
in March, succeeding  John Rose , who tapped a slew of new plane
designs to build a record order book and turn the London-based
company into the world’s second-biggest aircraft engine maker.  Meeting a target of doubling the company’s sales by 2020
should be possible thanks to contracts won during Rose’s 14-year
tenure. The tougher task will come during a lull in programs
between introduction of Airbus’s A350 widebody in 2013 and work
from a new range of single-aisle planes toward the decade’s end.  “You look forward a few years and Rishton’s challenge may
be to find other things to do with the company’s engineering
capability, because there aren’t that many new aircraft programs
coming through,” said  Sandy Morris , an analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc with a “buy” recommendation on Rolls-Royce stock.  Rolls closed down 1.3 percent at 595.5 pence in London,
following a 1.4 percent decline yesterday after the management
shuffle was announced. The stock has gained 25 percent this year
for a market value of 11 billion pounds ($17 billion).  Rishton joins from Dutch retailer Royal Ahold NV, where he
has been CEO for almost three years. Appointed as a non-
executive director at Rolls in February 2007, he can also draw
on his 12 years at British Airways Plc, one of the engine
manufacturer’s biggest customers.  Sales Target  The new chief will inherit a target of doubling sales from
last year’s 10.4 billion pounds by the end of the decade, set in
February 2009.  Aiding his chances is an order book that stood at 58.4
billion pounds as of June 30, with many of those contracts for
the Trent 1000 engine powering Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner, which
commences deliveries next year, and the Trent XWB, the only
available turbine on the competing Airbus A350.  Airbus says a replacement for its A320 single-aisle planes
probably won’t fly until the middle of next decade, while Boeing
doesn’t plan to make a successor to the 737 until at least 2020.  With fewer products undergoing development and a surfeit of
engineers on its books, Rishton may need to build up other units
to avoid losing skilled labor.  “Rolls isn’t going to make redundant workers it struggled
to find in the past and will have to redeploy them,” Morris
said. “So Rishton’s challenge probably lies outside civil
aerospace, which is where Rose has been spending most of his
time of late. It’s probably going to be quite different.”  Growth Areas  Growth areas under the incoming CEO are likely to include
marine and defense engines, energy turbines and work in the
nuclear power industry, Morris said. Calls to a Rolls-Royce
spokesman weren’t returned.  Last year, 44 percent of Rolls’s revenue came from civil
aerospace, 26 percent from the marine business, 20 percent from
military engines and 10 percent from energy turbines.  Airbus and Boeing may also offer re-engined versions of
their short-haul models in the nearer term. While Rolls has a
share of the existing market through its International Aero
Engines venture with Pratt & Whitney, it isn’t participating in
the U.S. company’s geared-fan project for an updated A320.  When the planemakers do eventually commit to all-new
models, open-rotor technology like that being developed by Rolls
is likely to be favored. Still, the U.K. company has no
guarantee of success, as market leader  General Electric Co.  will
be competing in the same category.  New Frontiers  In following Rose, 57, and  Ralph Robins , CEO in 1991-92 and
chairman for the next decade, Rishton must propagate contacts
with carriers that ordered Rolls engines to propel the U.K.
business past United Technologies Corp.’s Pratt to No. 2 in the
market, said  Howard Wheeldon , senior strategist at BGC Partners.  “Rose and Robbins brought in airlines that wouldn’t
necessarily have previously bought Rolls engines, but which did
so because of the service-based relationship and price-based
relationship,” Wheeldon said. “On manufacturing efficiency,
there is no-one else to fly the flag but Rose.”  At Ahold, Rishton embarked on a cost-cutting plan and
refurbished stores in the U.S. to reignite sales growth and
boost profit. In March he pledged to use part of a 2.7 billion-
euro ($3.4 billion) cash pile to increase the dividend and buy
back 500 million euros of stock.  “We know him as a guy who is very good at squeezing costs
out of the business,” said  Richard Withagen , an analyst at SNS
Securities, who has a “buy” recommendation on Ahold. “When a
company needs someone who needs to look after the costs and
operations, he is the right guy.”  ‘Stability and Discipline’  Rishton’s career at British Airways included four years as
chief financial officer between 2001 and 2006, a time when
passenger traffic was hurt in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks.  “He brought a lot of stability and discipline during the
uncertainties and downturn after the invasion of Iraq,” said
Tony Cocklin, a spokesman for aviation consultant Nyras, who was
manager of the chairman’s office at BA when Rishton was CFO.  Rose’s pre-Rolls career was in banking, with the First
National Bank of Chicago and Security Pacific. He joined the
engine maker in 1984 in the treasury department, became a
director in 1992 and from 1993 led the U.S. division, before
being promoted to the top job in 1996.  Rishton will start on similar employment terms to Rose,
with an 850,000-pound salary. He will also receive shares worth
2.8 million pounds as part of a “special grant” to match
incentives forfeited on leaving Ahold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  