-- Rolls-Royce CEO Rose to Hand Reins to Ahold's Rishton
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2010-09-30T16:57:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/rolls-royce-group-s-rose-to-retire-ceding-leadership-to-ahold-s-rishton.html
Rolls-Royce Group Plc  Chief
Executive Officer  John Rose , who turned the company into the
world’s second-biggest aircraft engine maker, will retire next
year and be succeeded by  Royal Ahold NV  CEO  John Rishton   Rose, who has led the company for 14 years, will leave at
the end of March, according to a statement today. Rishton is a
non-executive director at Rolls and a former  British Airways Plc 
chief financial officer. Ahold said in a separate statement that
 Dick Boer  will take the top job at the Dutch retailer.  The announcement of Rose’s departure comes as Rolls-Royce
grapples with malfunctions on its Trent 1000 aircraft engine,
including a failure on a test bed in Derby, England, last month
and power surge on a  Boeing  Co. 787 Dreamliner aircraft. Boeing
was forced to push back delivery of the 787 into the middle of
the first quarter, partly blaming Rolls for the latest delay.  “It’s been an extraordinary story,” said  Sandy Morris , an
analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. “Rolls was a long-way
number three,” behind General Electric Co. and Pratt & Whitney.  Rolls-Royce fell 8.5 pence, or 1.4 percent, to 603.5 pence
in London, where the company is based, valuing it at 11.2
billion pounds ($18 billion). Ahold fell 1.6 percent to 9.89
euros in Amsterdam.  Rose swelled Rolls’s order book to 58.3 billion pounds last
year from 10.4 billion pounds in 1998, said Morris, who rates
the stock “buy” and has a target price of 700 pence.  “Since joining the board John Rishton has gained a deep
understanding of Rolls-Royce and established an excellent
relationship with the management team,” Chairman  Simon Robertson  said in today’s statement. “He has a proven track
record as a chief executive of a global company and has a
background in aerospace and manufacturing.”  Rishton will start with similar terms to Rose, including an
850,000-pound salary, Rolls said. He will also receive shares
worth 2.8 million pounds as part of a “special grant” to match
incentives he forfeits on leaving Ahold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  