-- Rousseff Is Lula to Bond Market as Rally Biggest Since '02: Brazil Credit
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2010-09-30T21:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/rousseff-is-lula-to-bond-market-as-rally-biggest-since-02-brazil-credit.html
Brazilian bonds are posting their
longest streak of monthly gains since President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  was elected in October 2002 as investors bet his
successor will preserve policies that are fueling the fastest
economic expansion in two decades.  Dollar-denominated bonds  sold by the South American country
have returned 2 percent in September, the eighth straight
monthly advance, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Brazilian
debt is outperforming  emerging-market bonds , which are up 1.8
percent, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.  Dilma Rousseff , Lula’s chosen heir and the leader in polls
ahead of the Oct. 3 vote, is pledging to maintain fiscal
policies that are helping spur  growth  of more than 7 percent in
Latin America’s largest economy. The investor optimism contrasts
with the bond market rout that preceded Lula’s victory eight
years ago. Government bonds lost 17.7 percent that September
before posting an eight-month rebound as Lula squelched concern
that he would allow the country to default.  “After 2002, the elections became less of an issue for
Brazil,” said  David Spegel , the New York-based head of
emerging-market debt strategy at ING Groep NV. “Rousseff is not
really going to change things all that much. Investors are
optimistic. The underlying fundamentals are very favorable.”  Brazilian bonds are up 14.2 percent this year, compared
with a 10.2 percent advance for Russian debt and a 15.6 percent
gain for Mexican notes, according to JPMorgan. Emerging-market
debt overall has gained 14.4 percent.  Investment Grade  The  average yield  on Brazilian dollar debt slid 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point, this month to 4.94 percent,
within one basis point of a record low set Aug. 19. The  yield 
surged 686 basis points in September 2002 to 26.70 percent.  Lula, 64, has shored up investor confidence since his
election by cutting the budget deficit and reining in consumer
price increases. The annual inflation  rate  dropped to 4.6
percent from 17 percent in 2003 as Lula pared the budget deficit
to the equivalent of 3.4 percent of gross domestic product from
as wide as 6.1 percent. The real has rallied 108 percent against
the dollar since he took office, more than any other currency
tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil won its first investment-grade rating in April 2008,
when Standard & Poor’s raised it to BBB-. Fitch Ratings matched
the move a month later and Moody’s Investors Service followed
suit in 2009.  Election Polls  The 62-year-old Rousseff, a former cabinet chief under
Lula, vowed to cut tax rates and “continue changing with more
growth and social inclusion” when she was confirmed as the
candidate of Lula’s Workers’ Party on June 13. She has focused
her campaign on how she will maintain Lula’s cash transfers and
social welfare programs, which have helped lift 21 million
Brazilians out of poverty.  Rousseff had the support of 47.5 percent of those surveyed,
compared with 25.6 percent for ex-Sao Paulo governor  Jose Serra ,
in a Sensus poll for the National Transport Confederation taken
from Sept. 26-28. The nationwide poll of 2,000 people had a
margin of error of 2.2 percentage points. In the previous Sensus
poll, published Sept. 14, Rousseff had 50.5 percent support.  Should no candidate receive more than 50 percent of the
vote in the first round, Rousseff would win a runoff four weeks
later by taking 53.9 percent to Serra’s 34.5 percent, according
to the poll.  CPI-Linked Debt  “With the most recent polls, it’s more obvious that
Rousseff will win the first round of elections, removing some
uncertainty,” said  Cristina Panait , a strategist at Payden &
Rygel, which manages $1 billion of emerging-market debt. “If
the elections continue to go by quietly, we’re going to see
Brazil do very well.”  Yields on Brazil’s inflation-linked, real-denominated bonds
due in 2017 have climbed two basis points in September to 6.05
percent, the first increase in four months. The yield on the
country’s fixed-rate real-denominated notes maturing in the same
year rose 36 basis points to 11.85 percent, the first monthly
increase since April.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years was unchanged at 115, according to CMA DataVision
prices. The swaps have dropped 23 basis points in the three
months ending September, the first quarterly decline this year.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on Brazil’s interbank rate futures contract due in
January 2012 rose one basis point to 11.50 percent, paring their
slide this quarter to 58 basis points. The real rose 0.8 percent
to 1.6873 per dollar. The currency has gained 7 percent since
June 30.  ‘Open Question’  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 45 basis points this
quarter to 203, after falling four basis points today, according
to JPMorgan.  Investors may be overly optimistic because Rousseff could
still choose a cabinet that signals a break from Lula’s
policies, said  David Beker , the head of Latin America strategy
at Bank of America Corp. in New York.  “How Dilma will set up her government still remains an
open question,” Beker said in a telephone interview.  Bank of America in April cut its real forecast for
September to 1.9 per dollar on concern the election would curb
investment in the country. The bank now forecasts the real will
end the year at 1.8.  Swings in the currency are declining to a two-year low.  Implied volatility on one-month options for the real versus
the dollar, which reflects traders’ expectations for currency
fluctuations over the next month, dropped to 10.75 percent from
18.38 percent at the end of May. Earlier this month, the gauge
touched the lowest since September 2008.  “With the elections looking a lot less noisy than people
expected and the securities showing less volatility, it’s
putting investors’ concerns at ease,” said  Nick Chamie , head of
emerging-markets research at RBC Capital Markets in Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tal Barak Harif  in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net 
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 espinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  