-- Russian Spies' Cash, Cars, Real Estate Sought by U.S. in Forfeiture Action
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2010-09-30T18:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/russian-spies-cash-cars-real-estate-sought-by-u-s-in-forfeiture-action.html
The U.S. government is seeking
forfeiture of real estate, cars and cash left behind by 10
members of a Russian spy ring expelled from the country in July.  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara filed the forfeiture request
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  The Russian agents agreed not to contest the forfeiture of
some of their money and property when they admitted conspiring
to act as unregistered foreign agents before U.S. District Judge
 Kimba Wood  on July 8, according to the filing.  Each of the agents, some of whom had lived under aliases in
the U.S. for more than 10 years, admitted to carrying money or
coded messages, secretly communicating with Russian officials
and telling others how to find information useful to their
country.  Included among the property sought by Bharara are: $80,000
in bank accounts held by defendants Vladimir and Lydia Guryev,
who used the pseudonyms Richard and Cynthia Murphy; $105,000 in
accounts held by Mikhail Kutsik, also known as Michael Zottoli,
and Natalia Pereverzeva, who used the name Patricia Mills; and a
BMW, a Land Rover and a Volkswagen.  Also sought by Bharara are real properties located in
Montclair, New Jersey, Cambridge, Massachusetts, and Yonkers,
New York.  The agents’ pleas were part of an arrangement between the
U.S. and Russia that included an exchange of the 10 defendants
for four people jailed in Russia, Wood said at the July hearing.  U.S. investigators broke up the ring on June 28 with
arrests in the New York area, Boston and Arlington, Virginia.
Wood later sentenced them to time served and ordered them
deported.  The case is U.S. v. All Right, Title, and Interest in the
Real Property and Appurtenances located at 31 Marquette Road,
Montclair, New Jersey, 10cr7467, U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew M. Harris  in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 