-- Tryg Seeks Premium Growth in Sweden and Finland Amid `Dull' Danish Market
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2010-09-30T07:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/tryg-seeks-premium-growth-in-sweden-and-finland-amid-dull-danish-market.html
Tryg A/S , Denmark’s largest non-
life insurer, plans to generate as much as 25 percent of its
premium income in neighboring Sweden and Finland as it seeks to
offset slower demand for insurance at home.  “Those two countries should together be tailoring for at
least 20 percent to 25 percent of gross premiums five years down
the road,” Chief Executive Officer  Stine Bosse  said in an
interview at Tryg’s headquarters in Ballerup yesterday.  Tryg generated 11 percent of gross premiums in  Sweden and
Finland  in the first half, compared with 50 percent in Denmark
and 39 percent in Norway. Growth will be driven by sales
channels such as call centers and the Internet, as well as
through a distribution agreement with  Nordea Bank AB . Tryg plans
to increase its employee base in Sweden and Finland by as many
as 75 people in each country within five years, Bosse said.  The insurer, which traces its roots back to 1731 when
Kjoebenshavs Brand was founded after the Copenhagen Fire of 1728
destroyed almost a third of the city, expanded in Sweden last
year by purchasing the non-life operations of Moderna Insurance
for 1.26 billion kronor ($187 million). The Danish insurer is
looking for further acquisitions in faster-growing markets.  Gross premiums  in Sweden and Finland will exceed 1 billion
Danish kroner ($183 million) in each country “within a short
while” and represent a “significant part of volumes within
three to five years,” Bosse said. In the first half, gross
premiums earned in Sweden stood at 781 million kroner, an
increase of 96 percent from a year earlier. In Finland, they
were at 290 million kroner, up 31 percent.  ‘Another Moderna’  “If you find me another Moderna in Finland or Sweden, it
would be lovely,” Bosse said. While the company put a plan to
expand in the Baltic countries “on hold” when the financial
crisis began, it would consider opportunities in Estonia,
Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, she said.  Tryg has more than 2.7 million private clients and 140,000
corporate customers in the Nordic region and 4,300 employees. It
controls about 21 percent of the non-life market in Denmark and
18 percent of the market in Norway. It competes with companies
including Norway’s Gjensidige Forsikring ASA, Finland’s  Sampo
Oyj , Denmark’s  Topdanmark A/S  and Sweden’s Folksam AB.  Other recent acquisitions in the region include Gjensidige
Forsikring’s purchase of Nykredit Realkredit A/S’s non-life
insurance division in Denmark earlier this year.  Danish Outlook  The market in Denmark will remain “pretty tough” and
“very dull” in the coming two or three years, said Bosse, who
started at the firm in 1987 and has been CEO since 2001.  “If you walk through a middle-sized Danish town nowadays
it is pretty depressing as you see shops closing down and find
smaller and medium-sized companies finding it very hard to
tackle the situation,” she said. “I don’t think we’ve seen
the worst yet.”  Denmark’s corporate bankruptcies rose to a record in August
as mainly small and medium-sized companies went out of business,
the country’s statistics agency reported on Sept. 6. Of the
seasonally adjusted 606 companies that went bankrupt, 96 percent
had annual revenue of less than $2.7 million, the agency said.  Tryg, which has lost market share in Denmark during the
crisis as it canceled unprofitable accounts, is forecasting
annual premium growth in Denmark of 3.5 percent in coming years,
mainly driven by price increases, according to Bosse. The
company expects to raise prices for smaller and medium-sized
companies by 10 percent to 25 percent, she said.  In the second quarter, Tryg reported an 82 percent slump in
net income to 128 million kroner after claims increased and it
reported a loss on its equity holdings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Niklas Magnusson  in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
 Christian Wienberg  in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  