-- S&P `System Error' Sparks Changes in U.S. Residential Mortgage-Bond Grades
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2010-09-30T21:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/s-p-system-error-sparks-changes-in-u-s-residential-mortgage-bond-grades.html
Standard & Poor’s, the credit-
rating firm criticized for certain AAA rankings it assigned to
U.S. mortgage bonds, said it downgraded 224 classes of the
securities after discovering a “system error.”  The company reviewed ratings on bonds created through 50
securitizations that bundled residential mortgages from 1994
through 2007, New York-based S&P said today in a statement.
S&P examined 470 securities in making the cuts, and boosted
ratings on 17 bonds.  The changes stem from “the correction of a system error
that had caused the loan group mapping for these transactions to
be incorrectly displayed in our surveillance systems,” Jessica
Barbara and  Terry G. Osterweil , analysts at S&P, said in the
statement.  S&P and credit ratings company Moody’s Investors Service,
which both reported record profits from 2004 through 2008,
“failed to assign sufficient resources to adequately rate new
products and test the accuracy of existing ratings,” according
to the U.S. Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on  Investigations .
The committee is among the congressional panels that held
hearings on the global financial crisis that sparked more than
$1.8 trillion in losses and asset writedowns worldwide.  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for New York-based McGraw-Hill
Cos.’s S&P unit, declined to immediately comment beyond today’s
announcement.  Ratings Changes  S&P said in March it had lowered its ratings at least once
on $2.3 trillion of $3.3 trillion of U.S. residential securities
issued from 2005 through 2007. Lawmakers and investors including
public pension funds have accused S&P and Moody’s of helping
fuel the financial crisis by giving top rankings to mortgage
bonds based on the firms’ business interests, rather than the
creditworthiness of the debt they reviewed.  In a  report  last month, the Securities and Exchange
Commission criticized Moody’s for a 2007 decision against
changing ratings on certain so-called constant proportion debt
obligations, even after it discovered a modeling error that
rated the securities 1.5 to 3.5 notches higher than they should
have been.  While the SEC said a Moody’s committee in Europe improperly
valued its reputation above keeping investors informed, the
agency decided not to sue because of jurisdictional issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  