-- Offshore Drillers Must Improve Safety, Salazar Says
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2010-09-30T19:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/salazar-says-offshore-drill-plans-must-identify-potential-risks.html
Oil and natural-gas drillers in
U.S. waters must improve emergency systems and estimate a worst-
case spill if safeguards fail, under rules issued today in
response to  BP Plc ’s Gulf of Mexico spill.  “We are raising the bar for safety oversight and
environmental protection at every stage of the development and
drilling process,” Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said in a
speech at an energy conference in Washington. “Operators will
be required to meet new standards for well design, casing and
cementing.”  The new requirements and a report Salazar received from the
bureau regulating offshore drilling are “a big step forward”
toward ending the Obama administration’s moratorium on deep-
water drilling,  Robert Gibbs , the White House press secretary,
told reporters today. The administration halted drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet (152 meters) after BP’s Macondo well
off the Louisiana coast blew out April 20, killing 11 workers
and setting off the biggest U.S. oil spill.  “There are a series of technological and safety reforms
that this administration is very serious about implementing,
that need to be implemented and secured prior to the lifting of
that moratorium,” Gibbs said. While the moratorium expires Nov.
30, administration officials have said they may be able to lift
it earlier.  Landrieu’s Move  Industry groups and officials representing Gulf Coast
states have said the drilling ban is adding to economic
devastation in a region already hit hard by effects of the spill
on industries such as fishing and tourism. Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Lousiana Democrat, has said she will block Senate
action on President  Barack Obama ’s nomination of Jack Lew to
lead the White House budget office until the moratorium is
lifted.  Today’s drilling rules complement environmental and safety
regulations issued in June by the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, the Interior Department unit that oversees drilling.  The rules are aimed at tightening workplace safety on
offshore rigs and beefing up standards for equipment. In June,
regulators said chief executive officers must certify that their
companies comply with the regulations. Drillers also must
provide third-party verification that blowout preventers,
devices designed to cut off oil flow in a leak, are properly
designed and can stand up to pressure under all conditions. A
blowout preventer failed in the BP spill.  ‘Job-Killing’ Moratorium  Randall Luthi , president of the Washington-based National
Ocean Industries Association, an industry group, said the
Interior Department should have ended the drilling ban today.  “It’s unfortunate that the department did not take this
opportunity to lift the job-killing deep-water drilling
moratorium,” Luthi said in a statement. “The devil will be in
the details and the ability of the department to provide
adequate guidance and actually process permits.”  Companies have been anticipating the new requirements since
a May 27 Interior Department report outlined safety measures for
offshore drilling, said Erik Milito, upstream director at the
Washington-based American Petroleum Institute, an oil industry
group. How fast drillers can get back to work will depend on how
quickly the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management can process
permits, he said.  “We have a lot of concerns about that,” Milito said
yesterday on a conference call with reporters. “Just lifting
the moratorium in and of itself isn’t going to put people back
to work.”  No Immediate Drilling  Few drilling permits are likely to be issued in the month
after the suspension is lifted, said  Michael Bromwich , director
of the offshore bureau. While the new requirements won’t come as
a surprise to the industry, Bromwich couldn’t say how many
operators already comply.  “Even when the moratorium is lifted, you’re not going to
see drilling going on the next day or even the next week,”
Bromwich told a panel investigating the spill Sept. 28. “It’s
going to take some time, and I’d simply be guessing at this
point how long.”  Salazar defended the moratorium in his comments today.  “Some have criticized the suspension, but imagine if there
had been a second deep-water blowout in the Gulf of Mexico this
summer,” he said. “We will only lift the moratorium when I, as
secretary of Interior, am comfortable that we have significantly
reduced those risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jim Efstathiou Jr . in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 