-- Samuel Rejects Merger `Myths' Hounding Australia's Competition Watchdog
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2010-09-30T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/samuel-rejects-merger-myths-hounding-australia-s-competition-watchdog.html
Australia’s top competition regulator,
 Graeme Samuel , lashed out at critics who said the blocking of
 National Australia Bank Ltd.’s  $12.9 billion offer for Axa Asia
Pacific Holdings Ltd. signals increased  opposition  to mergers.  In an interview at his downtown Sydney office yesterday,
Samuel said such “myths” in the market risk eroding public
confidence in the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission.  “If that is lost, it starts to break down the ability of
the organization,” he said. “There are some in the media and
analysts at various broking firms who simply have got no idea.
Their analysis of what we do bemuses and bewilders me.”  The commission last month blocked a proposed alliance
between Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. and Air New Zealand Ltd., as
well as  National Australia Bank ’s planned takeover of asset
manager  Axa Asia Pacific.  The ACCC’s opposition to the banking
deal was a belated attempt to preserve competition weakened by
takeovers in the past two years, according to competition
lecturer Frank Zumbo.  “It’s responding to a perception among many that the ACCC
has been asleep at the wheel,” said Zumbo, associate professor
at the Australian School of Business, part of the University of
New South Wales. “There’s a line in the sand being drawn to
redeem themselves.”  ‘Superficial Nonsense’  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s biggest bank,
bought Bankwest from HBOS Plc in 2008. The same year,  Westpac
Banking Corp. , the No. 2 lender, acquired St. George Bank.  Faced with the same deals now, Samuel said he’d clear them
again.  “It beggars belief that serious analysts can draw the
conclusion that those two mergers have led to the diminution of
competition,” he said. “It’s superficial nonsense.”  Together with National Australia Bank and  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. , the top four lenders control at
least 88 percent of outstanding residential mortgages and 72
percent of loans to non-financial companies, according to  data
released yesterday  by the Australian Prudential Regulation
Authority.  The commission’s opposition to National Australia Bank’s
bid for Axa Asia Pacific suggests further takeovers by the four
banks are unlikely, analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
have said.  Speaking Out  “We will look at every matter on the facts and
circumstances at the time,” said Samuel, a former investment
banker and lawyer. “If people think we are manipulating the law
or manufacturing opposition, take us to court.”  Some people working on corporate takeovers incorrectly
believe that media speculation or meetings with ACCC executives
can influence the regulator, said Samuel, chairman of the
independent body since 2003. He said he’s speaking out now
because without public respect, the commission risks opposition
from lawmakers. Samuel is scheduled to step down next year.  Driving the commission’s decision to block National
Australia’s A$13.3 billion ($12.9 billion) bid was concern that
control of retail investment platforms would be too concentrated.
The platforms are software-driven portals used by wealth
managers and financial planners to sell products like life
insurance, deposits and pensions.  By denying approval on those grounds, the commission
adopted an “incredibly narrow” definition of a market, said
David Jacobson, a partner at Langes+ Lawyers who advises credit
unions and health insurers on regulatory matters.  “There was a feeling they may have been relaxing their
policies” after approving the St. George takeover, said
Jacobson. Still, Australia’s rules are clear, even if the
decisions aren’t always consistent, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Angus Whitley  in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Schneider  in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  