-- Satyam Tumbles in Mumbai Trading After Posting Loss Amid Financial Probe
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2010-09-30T11:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/satyam-tumbles-in-mumbai-trading-after-company-reports-full-year-loss.html
Satyam Computer Services Ltd. 
slumped the most in 10 months in Mumbai trading after the
company reported two years of losses, reviving concerns about
its ability to recover from India’s largest corporate fraud.  The  shares  fell 8.8 percent to close at 90.25 rupees in
Mumbai trading, the stock’s biggest percentage decline since
Nov. 25.  Tech Mahindra Ltd. , which bought Satyam in May 2009,
dropped 5.2 percent to 752 rupees.  “It will take some time for Satyam to win back client
confidence and compete,”  Bhavtosh Vajpayee , a Mumbai-based
analyst at CLSA Ltd. wrote in a note dated today.  Satyam, under investigation after former Chairman  Ramalinga Raju  disclosed in January 2009 he overstated assets by more than
$1 billion, said lack of access to people and documents is
hindering its ability to uncover all financial irregularities.
Tech Mahindra is seeking to allay concerns of investors and
clients as it prepares to start absorbing Satyam.  “Mahindra has definitely brought order, but the troubles
are not over,” said  Apurva Shah , an analyst at Prabhudas
Lilladher Pvt. “Clients are still choosing other vendors over
Satyam for their biggest deals. Satyam is going to face stiff
competition.”  Destroying Evidence  The net  loss  narrowed to 1.25 billion rupees ($28 million)
in the year ended March, from 81.8 billion rupees a year
earlier, the Hyderabad-based company said. Sales fell 38 percent
to 54.8 billion rupees, lagging behind estimates, said  Hitesh Shah , an analyst at IDFC Securities Ltd.  In a 25-page announcement to the National Stock Exchange
yesterday, Satyam said it’s still to detect all fund diversions.  Inability to access key former employees, previous
auditors, those arrested by the law-enforcement agencies, and
information stored on their computers were limiting the probe,
Satyam said. Some information might have been deleted or
destroyed, it said.  “We did bite off more than we could chew, but then you
chew it,” Chairman  Vineet Nayyar  said after the company
announced its first annual earnings in two years yesterday.
“The fact is that this company is no longer a drain on Tech
Mahindra. It’s cash positive. It hasn’t been for a long time,
remember that.”  “Lost Faith”  Satyam will report quarterly numbers on Nov. 15 and then
the process of absorbing Satyam will “typically” take a year
to complete, Nayyar said. The company may become U.S. GAAP-
compliant in about six to eight months, Nayyar said.  “Customers had lost faith,” said  Ajay Parmar , an analyst
with Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. “They may not have
wanted to work with a company with a past like Satyam’s. Once
Satyam is with Mahindra, it’ll renew trust.”  The total number of customers at Satyam declined to 350
from 500, after the fraud, Chief Executive Officer  Chander Prakash Gurnani  said yesterday. The company started winning
 orders  after the new management took charge and has added 44
customers since Tech Mahindra took control in May, Gurnani said.  Satyam, which delayed reporting its annual accounts after
Raju’s disclosure, announced its audited earnings for the fiscal
years ended March 2009 and 2010.  The merger of Satyam with Tech Mahindra will present legal
and organizational challenges, Nayyar told reporters yesterday.
While Tech Mahindra is largely focused on information technology
for the telecommunications industry, Satyam “does a lot of
other things,” including banking and insurance, Nayyar said.  The merger will require approvals from the boards of the
companies and also from Indian courts, he said.  “We have been able to successfully dispose off most of the
baggage from the past, except the class-action suits,” he said.
“We are like a patient convalescing and raring to go, and it
will take about two years for us to fully recover.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 