-- HSBC Offers U.S. Clients With More Than $100,000 in Assets Premier Status
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2010-09-30T17:58:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/hsbc-offers-u-s-clients-with-more-than-100-000-in-assets-premier-status.html
HSBC Holdings Plc , Europe’s largest
bank, plans to more than double the number of its U.S. premier
banking customers to 1 million by 2013, said  Andy Ireland , head
of the American wealth unit.  HSBC classifies premier customers as those with deposits
and investment balances of at least $100,000, said Ireland, who
runs  premier  banking and wealth management nationwide. HSBC
currently has 450,000 premier U.S. clients, he said.  “It’s a core focus for the bank globally,” Ireland said
in an interview at HSBC’s New York office today. The U.K. has
the most premier customers followed by Hong Kong and then the
U.S., he said.  In America, the  bank  is aiming its services at
“internationally minded” clients, such as those who travel
overseas for work or have children studying abroad. The London-
based bank estimates there are 25 million potential customers.  “That’s what separates us,” Ireland said of the bank’s
global nature. The bank lets premier customers open accounts at
HSBC branches around the world and transfer their credit history
when arriving in a new country to make them immediately eligible
for loans or mortgages. Customers also receive better currency
exchange rates. They are not charged fees for the services as
long as they maintain the minimum balance of $100,000.  HSBC wants its premier customers to do more with the bank
than open checking accounts, Ireland said. The idea is that
premier customers also will use HSBC for wealth management,
mortgages and investment products, he said.  HSBC Advance Customers  The bank re-launched its premier effort in 2007 and has
seen 137 percent growth in customers. The firm plans to
introduce “HSBC Advance” in the U.S. next year for customers
who maintain deposits of $25,000, said  Ashley Parker , the bank’s
president of the New York City region. Advance caters to a
younger customer than premier, he said.  UBS AG also is seeking to increase profits from wealth
management in the Americas. The biggest Swiss bank has opened a
new wealth management office in New York and will add staff as
it plans to expand market share among individual investors in
the largest U.S. cities.  HSBC named  Stuart Gulliver  chief executive officer last
week following the departures of CEO  Michael Geoghegan  and
Chairman  Stephen Green  in the biggest management shakeup in the
bank’s 145-year history.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
 Alexis Leondis  in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 