-- Senate Takes on Loud TV Commercials Before Leaving to Campaign
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2010-09-30T20:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/senate-fails-to-agree-on-taxes-budget-decides-to-tackle-loud-commercials.html
The U.S. Congress, unable to agree
on adopting a budget or extending tax breaks before recessing,
found time to take on loud television commercials.  The Senate unanimously  passed  the Commercial Advertisement
Loudness Mitigation Act yesterday, which would direct regulators
to set limits on the volume of TV ads, before members left
Washington to campaign for the Nov. 2 election.  “Every American has likely experienced the frustration of
abrasively loud television commercials,” Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse , a Rhode Island Democrat and sponsor of the bill,
said today in a statement.  “Action in the Senate will help end
this annoying practice.”  The legislation would direct the Federal Communications
Commission to adopt as regulations noise standards set by
television broadcasters.  The measure requires a vote in the House, which approved a
version this year, after differences are resolved before
President Barack Obama can sign it into law, Representative  Anna Eshoo , a California Democrat and sponsor of the House bill, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The bill will “give the control of sound back to the
consumer, where it belongs,” Eshoo said.  “It’s about time we turned down the volume on loud
commercials that try to startle TV watchers into paying
attention,” Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, said
in today’s statement. “TV viewers should be able to watch their
favorite programs without fear of losing their hearing when the
show goes to a commercial.”  Dennis Wharton, a spokesman for the National Association of
Broadcasters in Washington, didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 