-- U.S. Congress Approves Stopgap Funding Legislation Before Returning Home
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2010-09-30T04:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/senate-approves-stopgap-funding-legislation-before-adjourning.html
The U.S. Congress approved
stopgap legislation to keep the federal government from
shutting down as lawmakers headed home to campaign for the
Nov. 2 midterm elections.  Lawmakers, having failed this year to adopt a budget,
agreed on a measure, known as a continuing resolution, to
keep most government programs on their current budgets
until after Congress reconvenes in November. The measure
was approved by the Senate on a 69-30  vote  yesterday before
the House voted 228-194 early today to send it to President
 Barack Obama .  “We may not agree on much, but I think with rare
exception all 100 senators want to get out of here and get
back to their states,” said Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, before the vote.  Arizona Republican  John McCain  accused Democrats of
shirking one of Congress’s most basic tasks -- writing a
budget -- even as the government begins its new fiscal year
on Oct. 1.  “We’re one day away from the end of the fiscal year
and this body has not considered a single one of the annual
appropriations bills,” said McCain. “The simple fact that
we’re considering this continuing resolution is evidence of
the majority’s inability to lead.”  The vote adds the 12 annual appropriations bills,
needed to set the budgets of hundreds of federal programs,
to lawmakers’ already lengthy post-election to-do list.
Lawmakers have postponed a fight over President  George W. Bush’s  income-tax cuts that expire Dec. 31, a long-delayed
food-safety bill and a defense authorization bill, among
other items. The recommendations of President  Barack Obama’s  debt-reduction commission also are due Dec. 1.  Lawmakers also adjourned without approving  Jack Lew’s 
nomination to head the White House budget office. His
confirmation has been blocked by Louisiana Democrat  Mary Landrieu , who is demanding the administration loosen its
deep-water drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico.  Current Levels  Democrats rejected the administration’s request to
include tens of billions of dollars in additional spending
items amid concern over the federal  deficit . The measure
funds the executive branch through Dec. 3.  It would extend government backing of home loans up to
$729,750 in most higher-cost areas of the U.S., including
parts of California and New York, and up to $793,750 in
some counties in Hawaii.  In 2008, lawmakers increased the size of loans that
Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing
Administration were allowed to insure as part of an effort
to boost housing prices.  The move makes it easier for more borrowers to obtain
credit. Loans too large to receive a government guarantee
often require higher down payments and can carry higher
interest rates. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal
Housing Administration together backed nearly 97 percent of
all home loans issued in 2009, according to Inside Mortgage
Finance.  The bill is H.R. 3081.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Faler  in Washington at   or
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 