-- Shinhan to Tighten Control of Loan Reviews After President's Suspension
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2010-09-30T04:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/shinhan-to-tighten-control-of-loan-reviews-after-president-s-suspension.html
Shinhan Financial Group Co. , South
Korea’s largest financial company by market value, said it will
tighten its internal controls after its president was suspended
from duty over allegations of improper loan arrangements.  The Seoul-based company’s emergency task force, formed on
Sept. 15, is drafting measures to improve operations that also
include better communications with customers and ratings
companies and boosting employee morale, it said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The move is Shinhan Financial’s latest effort to calm
customers and investors after publicly apologizing over
impropriety at the company, which raised concerns about a
 management  shakeup. Shinhan Financial’s board suspended
President  Shin Sang Hoon  on Sept. 14 and regulators last month
asked for data on whether Chairman  Ra Eung Chan  broke the law by
opening an account in another person’s name.  The company’s Shinhan Bank unit asked prosecutors to
investigate Shin over allegations he arranged loans to his
relatives and embezzled money. Shin denies the allegations.  Moody’s Investors Service said Sept. 13 that the charges
have “meaningfully undermined the reputation of Shinhan Bank.”
Fitch Ratings on Sept. 20 downgraded its  ratings  outlook for the
lender to negative, reflecting “governance issues and the
potential financial and reputational impact of the series of
lawsuits” against Shinhan Financial.  Four Shinhan Financial  shareholders  lodged a suit at the
Seoul Central District Court on Sept. 13, arguing that Shinhan
Bank Chief Financial Officer  Lee Baek Soon  should be fired from
the boards of the lender and the parent company, it said earlier
this week.  Shares of  Shinhan Financial , which have lost 6.4 percent
since the Sept. 2 complaint against Shin, were unchanged at
43,250 won as of 12:15 p.m. in Seoul trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Seonjin Cha  in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  