-- Singapore Plans $1 Billion Fund for Research, Focuses on Economic Returns
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2010-10-01T10:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/singapore-to-set-up-1-billion-research-fund-focus-on-economic-returns.html
Singapore strengthened its research
and development focus on money-making outcomes and will set up a
S$1.35 billion ($1 billion) fund to promote closer ties with the
science and technology industries.  Out of the S$16.1 billion the government has budgeted to
spend on research and development from 2011 to 2015, 70 percent
will be for projects aimed at achieving economic success, rising
from 65 percent in the past five years, Minister for Trade and
Industry  Lim Hng Kiang  said in a  speech  in Singapore yesterday.  “We will place greater emphasis on competitive funding, to
spur innovation and bring out the best ideas for further support
and development,” Lim said. “This is timely as our R&D
landscape has become increasingly mature, with a firm foundation
in several areas of scientific knowledge.”  The changes are “a sign of impatience” as Singapore seeks
to quicken returns on its investment in research and
development, said  Alex Matter , chief executive officer of the
Experimental Therapeutics Centre, a division of the government’s
Agency for Science, Technology and Research.  “So far biomedical R&D has not contributed in any
significant way to the Singapore economy,” Matter said in an
interview today. “It’s not a strategic shift, it’s just a
refocusing on the original idea.”  ‘Knowledge-Based Economy’  The S$1.35 billion Industry Alignment Fund is aimed at
helping Singapore achieve its goal of being an “innovation-
driven and knowledge-based economy.” It will be used for
projects that connect public- and private-sector researchers and
in turn facilitate R&D investment, Lim said.  The overall research budget for the period starting 2011 is
20 percent more than the previous level, he said.  “How much we invest is important,” Lim said. “But more
important is what we invest it for and where we invest it.”  Lim said Singapore will still continue to back
“foundational research” in different areas. The minister said
19 percent of the 2010 to 2015 R&D budget will be allocated to
basic research.  For many researchers, the changes will come across as
abrupt, “and nobody likes abrupt change,” Matter said.
Singapore still compares “very well” to other nations as a
place to do research even after the changes, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Simeon Bennett  in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net . 