-- Slim Holds Rare Money-Loser in Energy
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2010-09-30T22:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/slim-doubles-down-on-losing-energy-bet-anticipating-pemex-spending-to-rise.html
Carlos Slim  has amassed a fortune
of more than $60 billion by investing in real estate and
telecommunications. His recent foray into the oil industry is
becoming a rare misfire.  Slim, 70, bought stakes in  Bronco Drilling Co.  and Allis-
Chalmers Energy Inc. over the past four years, betting the oil-
service companies would win contracts from state-run Petroleos
Mexicanos. Bronco and Allis-Chalmers have tumbled 43 percent and
75 percent respectively since Slim first disclosed his stakes,
in part because Pemex delayed hiring contractors.  So far the Mexican billionaire has lost about $40 million
on the trades. The loss is unlikely to deter the businessman
from making bigger wagers on energy projects, said  Jacques Rogozinski , who supervised the sale of Telefonos de Mexico SAB
to Slim in 1990 as head of Mexico’s Office of Privatization.  “He’s very patient, and when he gets into a sector, he is
using that opportunity to also learn the business,” said
Rogozinski, who is now general manager of Inter-American
Investment Corp., a lender affiliated with the Inter-American
Development Bank, in Washington. “I don’t think he’s too
worried about getting a fast return.”  Slim, named the world’s richest man this year by Forbes
magazine, has the means to hold out for improvement. His stakes
in Houston-based  Allis-Chalmers  and Edmond, Oklahoma-based
Bronco are now worth a combined $33 million, a fraction of his
$60.3 billion in public holdings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Speaking to reporters on Sept. 28 in Sydney, Slim said he’s
open to investing in oil and energy outside of Mexico, adding
his companies are building two hydroelectric dams in Panama.  ‘Near the Top’  Carso Infraestructura y Construccion SAB , one of the
companies Slim used to buy Bronco and Allis stakes, has fallen
10 percent this year, compared with a 3.8 percent gain in
Mexico’s IPC stock index.  Slim and executives of Mexico City-based Carso
Infraestructura y Construccion, known as Cicsa, declined to
comment, according to Slim’s press office.  Bob Jarvis , a
spokesman for Bronco, declined to comment. Allis-Chalmers Chief
Executive Officer  Munawar Hidayatallah  and Chief Financial
Officer  Victor Perez  didn’t respond to telephone messages.  Slim’s Inmobiliaria Carso fund disclosed a stake of 2.2
million shares in Bronco in October 2008, when the stock was
trading above $6. He bought an additional 2 million shares
through March 2009 as the stock fell further. He has warrants to
buy 5.44 million Bronco shares for at least $6.50 apiece, above
today’s close of $3.97.  ‘Near the Top’  “Carlos bought in kind of near the top,” said  Brian Uhlmer , a Houston-based analyst at Pritchard Capital Partners
LLC, an energy-industry investment bank founded in 2001. “I
don’t know why he’s still holding it. They’ve shut down a lot of
that drilling.” Uhlmer advises holding on to Bronco shares.  In September 2009, Cicsa bought a 60 percent stake in
Bronco’s Mexico unit to expand oil services in Latin America.
Bronco, in which Inmobiliaria Carso has a 15 percent stake, may
seek to redeploy more equipment to Mexico if demand there
improves, said  Judson Bailey , a Houston-based analyst at
Jefferies & Co. The firm helped manage Bronco’s initial share
sale in 2005.  “Mexico is viewed as an opportunity, because it’s an area
that has a lot of hydrocarbons and clearly need rigs,” said
Bailey, who has covered the drilling industry for 10 years.  Allis Chambers Stake  Through Carso Infraestructura and Inmobiliaria Carso, Slim
has held a stake in Allis-Chalmers since at least February 2007,
according to U.S. regulatory filings. The company provides
drilling and oilfield services mostly in the U.S. and Argentina,
with units in Brazil, Bolivia and Mexico. Allis-Chalmers lost
more than two-thirds of its value in 2008 after shareholders
rejected a takeover offer by Bronco, two months before Slim
disclosed his Bronco stake.  Cicsa, with a market value of 18.7 billion pesos ($1.49
billion), does drilling projects for Pemex. Oil represents less
than one-third of its sales.  Pemex executives including Chief Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  have said since at least October 2009 that
new drilling contracts that reward contractors for performance
would become available within a few months. The contracts have
not yet materialized.  Carlos Morales , Pemex’s head of exploration and production,
said in a July conference call the new contracts will be offered
next month. Pemex’s press office in Mexico City didn’t respond
to e-mail messages yesterday.  Pemex Contract  Cicsa cited the Pemex contract woes for the 39 percent
sales drop in its chemical and petroleum unit last quarter, the
worst  performance  of Cicsa’s five divisions.  “As everybody knows, Mexico is in a little bit of disarray
at this point,” Bronco Chief Financial Officer  Zachary Graves 
said in an August conference call.  Of 12 Mexican and U.S. companies Slim has disclosed holding
from the end of 2008 through today, only one business besides
Bronco, Allis-Chalmers and Cicsa has had a declining share price
in the period.  Telefonos de Mexico SAB , the nation’s largest
phone carrier, has dropped 34 percent in that period, after the
2008 spinoff of its international unit, Telmex Internacional
SAB.  Slim’s acquisition of Telmex in 1990 from the government
helped expand his wealth, especially after the company spun off
 America Movil SAB  in 2001. Slim’s stake in the wireless carrier,
Latin America’s largest, is worth about $40 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Slim’s best option for his Bronco stake may be to wait for
a buyer, as happened with Allis-Chalmers, said Bailey of
Jefferies. Allis-Chalmers has doubled from a July low of $1.83
after  Seawell Ltd.  announced in August it would buy the company.  “It’d crush the stock if he tried to sell out,” said
Bailey. “It’s in his best interest to get the company sold or
buy it outright.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Crayton Harrison  in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  