-- South Korea Military Talks With North End With No Progress on Ship Sinking
-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 2010-09-30T06:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/south-korea-north-korea-to-hold-military-talks-as-u-s-backs-dialogue-.html
South Korea’s first military talks
with North Korea in almost two years ended without any progress
after the communist country refused to acknowledge it sank one
of South Korea’s warships in March, an official said.  The meeting at the border village of Panmunjom concluded in
less than two hours after each side made opening statements, a
South Korean Defense Ministry official said, declining to be
named in accordance with government policy. The two sides also
failed to set a date for future talks, the official said.  South Korea demanded that North Korea apologize for the
March 26 attack on the Cheonan, which killed 46 sailors, and
take measures to ensure such provocation wouldn’t recur, the
official said. North Korea reiterated its offer to send an
inspection team to South Korea, he said.  North Korea has repeatedly denied sinking the warship,
accusing South Korea and the U.S. of trying to pressure the
country with false accusations. It has held five rounds of
discussions in Panmunjom with the U.S.-led United Nations
Command over the Cheonan incident without any breakthrough.  Today’s military talks were the first to be held between
the countries since October 2008.  The resumption of discussions came in the week North Korean
leader  Kim Jong Il  conferred key military and party posts on his
youngest son,  Kim Jong Un , signaling preparations for a power
transfer. The junior Kim, believed to be in his late 20s, was
named a four-star general.  South Korea’s Yonhap News today published a picture of the
son seated two places away from his father in a group leadership
photo released by North Korea’s official Korean Central News
Agency.  Military Drills  The Cheonan sinking has led to South Korea bolstering its
military drills with the U.S., which sent a nuclear-powered
aircraft carrier to waters off the Korean peninsula’s east coast
in July for naval maneuvers. North Korea’s Vice Foreign Minister
Pak Kil Yon told the UN yesterday that his country will continue
developing nuclear weapons.  “As long as U.S. nuclear aircraft carriers sail around the
seas of our country, our nuclear deterrent can never be
abandoned, but should be strengthened further,” Pak told the UN
General Assembly. North Korea is under UN sanctions for its
nuclear tests in 2006 and 2009.  North Korea and South Korea are technically still at war
since the 1950-53 Korean War ended in a cease-fire that was
never replaced by a peace treaty. The U.S. stations about 28,500
soldiers in South Korea as a legacy of the conflict.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Austin at 
 billaustin@bloomberg.net  