-- South Africa Posts Biggest Trade Deficit in Six Months After Rail Accident
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2010-09-30T14:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/south-africa-posts-biggest-trade-deficit-in-six-months-after-derailment.html
South Africa posted its biggest
trade deficit in six months in August after a rail accident
disrupted iron ore exports.  The shortfall was 4.7 billion rand ($675 million), compared
with a surplus of 2 billion rand in July, the  South African
Revenue Service  said in an e-mailed statement today. The median
estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
deficit of 800 million rand.  Transnet Ltd., the state-owned port and rail operator, shut
its Sishen-Saldanha railroad for six days through July 28 after
more than 120 wagons derailed. The 861-kilometer (535-mile)
railway, which carries iron ore exports from mines near Sishen
in the Northern Cape to the port at Saldanha in the Western
Cape, transports about 34 million metric tons a year, according
to Transnet.  “The export of mineral products was impacted negatively in
August due to a derailment late July on an export line,” the
revenue service said in its statement. “The loss in mineral
products export volumes however is expected to be recovered over
the next few months.”  Exports of mineral products, which include coal and iron
ore, plunged by 3.4 billion rand, or 27 percent, in August from
the previous month, the revenue service said. That curbed total
exports to 48.5 billion rand, 13.4 percent less than in July.  Current Account  Imports declined 1.5 percent to 53.2 billion rand in the
month, mainly due to a 27 percent slump in oil shipments. Lower
volumes, a stronger rand and a drop in oil prices have helped to
curb crude imports this year, Andrew Fisher, an executive at the
revenue service, said in a phone interview.  The trade gap last month may widen the  current account
deficit , which narrowed to 2.5 percent of gross domestic product
in the second quarter, the lowest level in more than six years.
The smaller gap in the current account, the broadest measure of
trade in goods and services, has helped to underpin the rand,
which surged almost 10 percent against the dollar this quarter.  “We see the current account deficit widening in the third
quarter,” said  Shireen Darmalingam , an economist at Standard
Bank Group Ltd., Africa’s biggest lender. “And even though
there is likely to be sufficient funds to finance the deficit,
we do not discount the fact that sentiment could weaken and
emerging market risk aversion could set in.”  The rand was little changed at 6.9834 against the dollar as
of 3:50 p.m. in Johannesburg from 6.9867 before the data was
released.  Trade figures are often volatile, reflecting the timing of
shipments of commodities such as oil and diamonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Nasreen Seria  in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  