-- Sovereign Debt Credit Ratings Face EU Demand for Transparency
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   K a t e   H a y w o o d
-- 2010-09-30T17:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/sovereign-debt-credit-ratings-to-face-eu-demand-for-transparency-accuracy.html
European Union finance ministers
and central bank heads will discuss whether government debt
ratings “are necessary” as well as proposals to require more
transparency on the assessments at a meeting tomorrow.  The “economic and political implications” of sovereign
debt ratings mean “it is particularly important that ratings of
this asset class be accurate, timely and transparent,”
according to a copy of a proposal obtained by Bloomberg News
that is scheduled to be presented at a meeting in Brussels
tomorrow by the  European Commission .  Ratings came under regulatory scrutiny after subprime
mortgage securities with top grades helped fuel the worst
financial crisis since the Great Depression. Pressure increased
in Europe after Greece’s rating was cut to junk status in April,
adding urgency to plans to bail out the debt-plagued nation.  “Concern has been expressed on whether the ratings of
sovereign debt are necessary at all given the fact that there is
already a large degree of transparency in the markets as regards
the situation of government finance,” according to the
document, dated Sept. 15.  Mark Tierney , director of communications at Standard &
Poor’s in London, declined to comment. A spokeswoman at  Moody’s
Investors Service  in London declined to immediately comment.  Moody’s today cut Spain’s top credit rating to Aa1 from Aaa
citing weak economic growth prospects and “considerable
deterioration” of the government’s finances. The move put
pressure on Socialist Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  who is seeking parliament support for a plan to reduce
government spending by 3 percent.  ‘Imperfect Tool’  “Some investors believe that ratings may sometimes be an
imperfect tool, but one that they still rely on,” said  Aziz Sunderji , a credit strategist at Barclays Capital in London.
“If the EU and member states are going to stop using
traditional ratings then the question is what do they replace
them with.”  The European Union approved rules for credit rating
companies last year, requiring them to adhere to a code of
conduct to reduce conflicts of interest between issuers and
rating firms.  The existing regulation doesn’t address problems such as an
“over-reliance on credit ratings,” the “civil liability” of
agencies or “the high degree of concentration” in the market
for ratings of a small number of firms, the EU document said.  More transparent ratings “is a good thing, but it doesn’t
make sense to move to a world where ratings aren’t used,” said
 Michael Hampden-Turner , a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
 Kate Haywood    khaywood@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  