-- Spain's Credit Rating Cut One Level by Moody's; Bonds Rise
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-09-30T12:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/spain-credit-rating-lowered-one-level-by-moody-s-on-weak-economic-outlook.html
Spain’s top credit rating was cut
one level by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited a “weak”
economic outlook and doubts that the nation will reach deficit-
reduction targets.  The ratings company lowered Spain to Aa1 from Aaa with a
stable outlook, it said today in a statement. Spain lost its top
grade at Fitch Ratings in May and at Standard & Poor’s in
January 2009. Bonds rallied as some investors anticipated a two-
grade cut. Moody’s downgraded Greece by four steps in June and
Portugal by two in July.  “It’s a relief, as the market was pricing the worst
possible outcome,” said  Gianluca Salford , a fixed-income
strategist at JP Morgan Chase Bank in London. “When you look at
how Moody’s is treating the other peripherals, a one-notch cut
was the most realistic option.”  Spanish Deputy Finance Minister  Jose Manuel Campa  said in a
telephone interview today the cut was based on “overly
pessimistic” growth estimates. Finance Minister  Elena Salgado 
presented the most austere budget in three decades to Parliament
today. The plan includes a reduction in public wages, higher
taxes and a pension freeze.  Moody’s sees growth of about 1 percent per year on average
over the “next few years,” it said in the release. The Spanish
government expects an expansion of 1.3 percent next year,
accelerating to 2.5 percent in 2012 and to 2.7 percent in 2013.  “Long-term growth potential is slightly below 2 percent,”
Campa said today.  Debt Sales  Spain will sell 192 billion euros of debt in gross terms
next year, according to the 2011 budget. Redemptions will amount
to 148.7 billion euros, leaving net new borrowing of 43.3
billion euros, the budget showed. Outstanding debt increased by
76.1 billion in 2010, according to forecasts in the budget.  The  extra yield  investors charge to hold Spanish 10-year
debt rather than the German equivalents narrowed to 188 basis
points from 196 basis points yesterday. The spread reached 233
basis points on June 17, the widest since the start of the  euro 
more than a decade ago.  Portuguese spreads narrowed to 410 basis points from 423
basis points yesterday after the government followed Spain’s
lead in its budget plan announced late yesterday, cutting wages,
raising taxes and freezing investment.  Spain’s budget, approved by the Cabinet on Sept. 24, aims
to reduce spending by 3 percent compared with this year and
includes an increase in income tax for those earning more than
120,000 euros a year. The plan today goes to parliament, where
Socialist Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero  needs to
win votes from smaller parties. The country saw its first
general strike in eight years yesterday in protest at the
austerity measures and changes to labor laws.  Deficit Targets  Moody’s sees the government reaching its budget targets of
9.3 percent of gross domestic product this year and 6 percent
next year, even as it will be “very difficult” to meet the 3
percent goal in 2013, senior analyst Kathrin Muehlbronner said
in a telephone interview today.  The government’s austerity measures are starting to pay
off, as the central government’s budget  deficit  narrowed by
almost half to 3.3 percent of GDP in the first eight months of
the year, the Finance Ministry said on Sept. 27. The overall
deficit that the EU monitors also includes the regional
administrations’ shortfalls and the balance of the social
security system, which is in surplus.  Fitch Ratings cut Spain to AA+ on May 28, citing concerns
over the economy’s ability to grow. S&P ranks the nation AA.
Spain held the top grade at Moody’s since 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  