-- Spain Leads Peripheral Bonds' Gains as Bailout Concern Eases
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2010-09-30T15:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/spain-leads-european-peripheral-bonds-gains-as-concern-over-bailout-eases.html
Spanish, Irish and Portuguese bonds
rose as concern eased that the government finances of peripheral
euro-area nations are deteriorating at a rate that would force
them to activate a European Union-led bailout.  Spain’s 10-year securities rose for the first time in three
days after the nation’s top credit rating was lowered less than
some investors forecast. Irish bonds were higher as the nation
said it would pause debt auctions until 2011 after detailing
costs of a bank bailout. German two-year notes fell as lenders
demanded less cash than expected from the European Central Bank.  “The Spanish downgrade is well within what was discounted
by the market,” said  Steven Major , London-based global head of
fixed-income research at  HSBC Holdings Plc . “Ireland isn’t
going to validate the secondary market yields by issuing into
them,” betting it can reassure investors by the time it needs
to issue more debt, he said.  The Spanish 10-year bond yield fell 8 basis points to 4.12
percent as of 4:52 p.m. in London. The 4.85 percent security
maturing in October 2020 rose 0.64, or 6.40 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,359) face amount, to 105.93. The yield premium investors
demand to hold the bonds instead of benchmark German bunds
narrowed 12 basis points to 185 basis points.  Ireland’s 10-year yield fell 14 basis points to 6.56
percent. Portugal’s slid 24 basis points to 6.24 percent,
Italy’s dropped 6 basis points to 3.88 percent and Greece’s
declined 19 basis points to 10.45 percent.  Irish Banks  Peripheral nations’ bonds weakened relative to German
securities earlier this week as investors shunned the debt on
concern political opposition and a slower economic recovery may
hamper efforts to rein in deficits. Irish 10-year bond yield
spreads to bunds reached a record yesterday amid concern the
cost to rescue  Anglo Irish Bank Corp . and  Allied Irish Banks Plc 
would overwhelm the nation.  Ireland’s Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan  said today on BBC
Radio the country will demonstrate “a credible pathway out of
our difficulties,” and that he didn’t envisage the need for EU
aid. The total cost of bailing out the country’s banks may
ultimately rise to about 50 billion euros under a “stress
case” scenario for Anglo Irish, according to figures published
by the country’s finance ministry and the central bank today.  Correct Prediction  Five out of eight money managers overseeing about $700
billion in total correctly predicted in a Bloomberg survey this
week that Spain would have its rating lowered one notch to Aa1
by Moody’s Investors Service, while three forecast a two-level
cut. Spain will sell 192 billion euros of debt in 2011, budget
documents presented to parliament today showed, compared with a
plan for sales of 211.5 billion this year  Italy’s gross domestic product will increase 1.2 percent in
2010, up from the 1 percent predicted on May 6, according to a
document passed by the Cabinet in Rome yesterday. Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  won a confidence vote on his government’s
program for the next 30 months yesterday.  The Portuguese government plans to reduce wages of public
workers, raise some taxes and freeze investment this year,
according to a 2011 budget plan designed to convince investors
it can narrow its deficit. The measures will lead to a reduction
in public spending of 3.42 billion euros and an increase in
fiscal revenue of about 1.7 billion euros, Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said.  German  two-year notes  and Euribor futures dropped after
lenders demanded less in loans from the ECB than some analysts
estimated, prompting bets borrowing costs will rise.  ECB Auction  The ECB said today it lent banks 29.4 billion euros for six
days to ease the expiry of 225 billion euros in longer-term
loans. Offerings for six and 12 months that are ending won’t be
renewed as policy makers phase out non-standard measures used to
fight the financial crisis. The central bank lent 104 billion
euros for three months yesterday.  “It’s likely that we’ll see an overall fall in excess
liquidity in money markets and that’s pushing up future rate
expectations,” said  Elwin de Groot , a senior market economist
at Rabobank Groep in Utrecht, Netherlands. “There’s less need
for funding and you could argue that’s a positive signal. But
alternative investments are much less interesting than they were
a year ago, and that’s probably having an impact on demand.”  The yield on two-year German notes rose 5 basis points to
0.83 percent. The yield on the Euribor futures contract for June
2011 rose 6 basis points to 1.26 percent as investors added to
bets for higher borrowing costs.  The yield on the German bund, Europe’s benchmark government
debt security, was 3 basis points higher at 2.27 percent, after
data pointing to a sustained U.S. economic recovery reduced
speculation the Federal Reserve will step up asset purchases to
boost the economy. German unemployment fell more than economists
forecast, according to a separate report today.  German bonds handed investors a 2.2 percent return this
quarter, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Irish debt
had a loss of 5 percent and Portuguese securities fell 3.1
percent, the indexes show. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares
rose 7.6 percent over the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  