-- Spain's Credit Rating Cut One Level to Aa1 by Moody's
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2010-09-30T06:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/spain-s-credit-rating-lowered-to-aa1-by-moody-s-on-weak-economic-outlook.html
Spain had its top credit rating cut
one level by Moody’s Investors Service, which cited the nation’s
“weak” economic outlook.  The ratings company lowered Spain to Aa1 from Aaa with a
stable outlook, it said today in a statement. Spain lost its top
grade at Fitch Ratings in May and at Standard & Poor’s in
January 2009.  The move puts additional pressure on the government of
Prime Minister  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , which saw the  extra
yield  on its debt surge to a euro-era high in June, as it
prepares to pass the most austere budget in three decades.
Zapatero is trying to convince investors he can rein in the euro
region’s third-largest deficit while returning the economy to
 growth  after an almost two-year recession.  The  extra yield  investors charge to hold Spanish 10-year
debt rather than the German equivalents widened to 199 basis
points today, compared with a two-month low of 134 basis points
on July 27. The spread reached 233 basis points on June 17, the
widest since the start of the  euro  more than a decade ago. Irish
and Portuguese spreads widened to euro-era highs this week, both
exceeding 400 basis points.  Spain’s borrowing costs are still more than twice the
average for 2009 before concern about Greece’s ability to
finance its budget shortfall prompted investors to sell bonds of
other high-deficit European Union countries, adding to pressure
on their credit ratings.  Greek Downgrade  Moody’s downgraded Greece on June 14 by four steps to non-
investment grade, citing “substantial” risks to economic
growth from austerity measures tied to a 110 billion-euro ($149
billion) EU-led aid package. The company cut Portugal’s rating
on July 13 by two notches to A1. S&P cut Ireland to AA- on Aug.
24, its third reduction in less than two years, citing the
possible costs of supporting the nation’s financial industry.  Spain’s “weak economic growth prospects,” the
“considerable deterioration” of the government’s finances and
the “worsening debt affordability” triggered the downgrade,
Moody’s said.  The Cabinet approved on Sept. 24 the 2011 budget, which
aims to reduce spending by 3 percent compared with this year and
includes an increase in income tax for those earning more than
120,000 euros a year. The plan today goes to parliament, where
Zapatero needs to win votes from smaller parties to pass it. The
country saw its first general strike yesterday in protest at the
austerity measures and changes to labor laws.  Growth Forecasts  Spain’s economy is likely to grow about 1 percent per year
on average over the “next few years,” Kathrin Muehlbronner, a
Moody’s analyst, said in the release. The Spanish government
sees the economy expanding 1.3 percent next year, having reduced
its forecast from 1.8 percent as a result of the deepest  budget 
cuts in at least three decades, which include lower wages for
public workers. It still expects economic growth to accelerate
to 2.5 percent in 2012 and to 2.7 percent in 2013.  The Socialist government aims to cut the  budget shortfall 
to 6 percent of gross domestic product in 2011 from 11.1 percent
last year, bringing it within the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2013.
To achieve the reduction, the government is cutting public wages
5 percent this year, raising taxes, reducing spending on
infrastructure and freezing pensions.  The measures are starting to pay off, as the central
government’s budget  deficit  narrowed by almost half to 3.3
percent of GDP in the first eight months of the year, the
Finance Ministry said on Sept. 27. The overall deficit that the
EU monitors also includes the regional administrations’
shortfalls and the balance of the social security system, which
is in surplus.  Fitch Ratings cut Spain to AA+ on May 28, citing concerns
over the economy’s ability to grow. S&P ranks the nation AA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Emma Ross-Thomas  in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  