-- Sugar May Decline Next Week as Weather Improves in Brazil, Survey Shows
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-09-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/sugar-may-decline-next-week-as-weather-improves-in-brazil-survey-shows.html
Sugar futures may fall as concern
eases over drought in Brazil, the world’s biggest producer and
exporter, according to a survey.  Eight of 12 traders, analysts and brokers surveyed by
Bloomberg News said raw sugar traded in New York will drop next
week. Four predicted that prices will be little changed. Raw
sugar declined 3.8 percent this week to 23.48 cents a pound
yesterday on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  Prices surged 46 percent in the quarter ended Sept. 30, the
most since the three months ended March 31, 1993, partly on
concern that adverse weather had damaged crops in Brazil.  A cold front reached the southeastern states of Sao Paulo
and Minas Gerais on Sept. 26, said  Expedito Rebello , the head of
research at the government’s Meteorology Institute, known as
Inmet. The likelihood that it will cause hailstorms fell to 10
percent from a 60 percent probability estimated a week ago, he
said.  “Weather seems a lot better in Brazil,”  Jake Wetherall , a
trader at Rabobank International in London, said by e-mail
yesterday.  Seven of 12 survey respondents said white sugar traded on
London’s Liffe exchange will fall and five forecast little
change. Refined sugar has retreated 2.5 percent this week to
$617 a ton.  Refined sugar’s premium over raw sweetener will probably
widen, according to six of 12 people surveyed. Two estimated it
will narrow, while four said it would be unchanged.  In the attached chart, red bars are derived by subtracting
bearish forecasts from bullish estimates for raw sugar, with
readings above zero signaling that most respondents expect
higher prices. The green line shows raw-sugar prices, and the
blue line shows white sugar.  Editors: Daniel Enoch, Patrick McKiernan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  