-- Sugar Futures Slump Most in Six Months in New York on Rising Indian Supply
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2010-09-30T19:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/sugar-drops-for-a-second-day-on-indications-of-swelling-supply-from-india.html
Sugar fell the most in six months
in New York on signs of rising output in India, the world’s
second-biggest producer.  India’s surplus may increase by 50 percent in the year
starting tomorrow, the National Federation of Cooperative Sugar
Factories Ltd. said yesterday. Uttar Pradesh, the top cane-
growing state, has had 13 percent more rain than normal since
June 1, a government-run forecaster said. Raw-sugar prices have
jumped 65 percent since the end of May on concern that supplies
wouldn’t keep pace with demand.  “The news flowing from India is definitely intended to
drive the market lower,”  Jonathan Bouchet , a Geneva-based
analyst and trader at OTCex Group, said today in a report.
“Uncertainty remains concerning the Indian crop, and traders
are waiting to see more numbers.”  Raw sugar for March delivery declined 1.45 cents, or 5.8
percent, to settle at 23.48 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York, falling the most since March 31.
Prices surged 46 percent this quarter, the most since the three
months ended March 31, 1993, after adverse weather damaged crops
in Russia and Pakistan.  In London, refined sugar for December delivery dropped $18,
or 2.8 percent, to $617 a metric ton on NYSE Liffe. The most-
active contract jumped 31 percent this quarter, the most in a
year.  India will decide whether to ease export curbs in early
November, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said yesterday. The
country’s sugar surplus may reach 7 million to 7.5 million tons
in the year starting Oct. 1, up from 5 million tons this year,
Jayantilal Patel, the president of the National Federation of
Cooperative Sugar Factories, said yesterday.  Brazil is the biggest producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at   ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
 Debarati Roy  in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 