-- Superyachts Entice Billionaires With Sonic Cannons, Airplanes
-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 2010-10-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/superyachts-lure-billionaires-with-sonic-cannons-lasers-a-craig-copetas.html
Pascal Wiscour-Conter , having studied
the business of superyachts for 20 years, has figured out what
today’s seafaring billionaire wants most afloat.  “NATO military technology integrated with NASA satellite
tracking to create an invisible offensive security bubble with
underwater sonic cannons and surface lasers that evaluate and
take out anyone who lays siege to the vessel,” says Wiscour-
Counter, chief executive officer of  Equisea Yacht  Management in
Monte Carlo.  “This gear knows the difference between a malicious scuba
diver and a curious dolphin,” he says over a plate of sushi at
the recent 20th  Monaco Yacht Show . “And we transmit all the
information to your iPhone four times a day.”  In an era of economic uncertainty and technological marvel,
Equisea’s 300,000 euro ($409,500) Marss security system is a
cut-rate and painful trinket for a glamour industry that in the
U.S. has seen “new-build” yacht sales sinking to 573,520 last
year from 912,130 in 2006, according to the U.S.  National Marine
Manufacturers Association .  Globally, analysts say sales of new superyachts measuring
more than 115 feet (35 meters) in length with 50 million-euro-
plus price tags have dropped to perhaps a dozen a year in a
market that during the best of times has the cash to pay for 100
vessels annually. Last year, the two biggest “old-build”
superyachts sold were the 288-foot Maltese Falcon and the 246-
foot Rebom, according to the Superyacht Intelligence report,
which didn’t disclose prices.  Indoor Lagoon  Standing shoeless on the shiny teak aboard the recently
launched 14.5 million euro H2ome,  Fraser Yacht Ltd.  CEO Hein
Velema reckons the 144 foot ocean barge that resembles a
Manhattan penthouse loft with a top speed of 40 knots and an
indoor lagoon illustrates why the 72 shipbuilders at the Monaco
Yacht show are now in pursuit of barefoot luxury.  “Thirty-four percent of yachts over 130 feet are now for
sale and most of them were built in 1998,” Velema calculates.
“This year we’ve only built four new yachts.” He gestures
leeward toward the mob of 100 superyachts anchored beneath
Monaco’s patriotic bunting and flocks of helicopters. “Now it’s
about upgrading, customizing and caring for what you have,”
Velema says.  Interested in becoming part of the New Moderation? The
adjustors at  OnlyYacht  Superyacht Insurance in London say such
indulgence on board the H2ome runs to 96,000 euros a year,
including health benefits for the crew.  Going Green  “The days of frippery are over,” says George Fortune,
director of Monte Carlo Luxury Yachts. “Buyers want to go
green, travel further and consume less energy.”  Fortune’s future is Gattopardo VI, a 132-foot, four-deck
Italian-language leopard powered by two Caterpillar bulldozer
engines that crank out 1,700 horsepower on 14,794 gallons (about
$50,000 worth) of diesel fuel that can take passengers on a non-
stop 7,000 nautical-mile trip at a speed of 7 knots.  “It also comes with an elevator and, for fun, some fast
speedboats,” Fortune says. The price? “It’s not for sale,” he
adds.  Yet everything else in the carefully accessorized world of
superyachts is up for grabs in 2011. As Gilles Dyan, director of
the  Opera Gallery  in Monaco tells it, “a superyacht is a very
personal, private, intimate and emotional place.” And Dyan, who
advises a closely held clique of superyacht owners on which
 Picasso  to buy and hang on the poop deck, says part of his job
is to “make sure the air conditioning airflow doesn’t blow
right into the painting.”  Picasso, Submarines  Maykel Hop says his 700,000 euro superyacht accoutrement
offers the ideal environment for anything from an Old Master to
 Damien Hirst ’s $8 million “The Physical Impossibility of Death
in the Mind of Someone Living” rotting shark set in
formaldehyde. Hop’s the director general of the Dutch luxury-
submarine company  U-Boat Worx  and his fleet of lime- and cherry-
colored vessels look like gigantic motorcycle helmets.  “All electric battery power, no fumes,” Hop says as the
boat dives on its journey to see what’s on the bottom. “Hey, if
you want a wine cellar, we can install one.”  Can it be a coincidence that the periscope detects corks
popping on a nearby deck?  “For no good reasons there seems to be a breakdown in
service and value when it comes to the enjoyment of wines aboard
superyachts,” says Bertrand Faure Beaulieu, a principal at
Sarment Yacht Services. “Our ultimate fine-wine service is now
available for the ultimate superyacht.”  Sailing Sommelier  Still, Sarment’s chief wine steward, Christopher Delalonde,
says vigilance is vital. “The slight rocking of the yacht,”
the sailing sommelier warns, “tends to make the oldest wines
evolve faster.”  Vanessa Troillard grasps the importance of stability,
particularly when it comes to the shore-to-ship transport of
fine wine, expensive art and passengers wearing a 194,650 euro
Audemars Piguet Royal Oak concept carbon wrist watch.  That’s where Lisa fits in. She’s the 300,000 euro single-
prop airplane designed to float into any superyacht’s internal
docking cocoon.  “The price includes 20 hours of flight training,” says
Troillard, a marketing manager at the French-based aeronautical
firm  Lisa Airplanes SA . “Maximum range of 1,650 kilometers,
with a built-in parachute and detachable pontoons that can be
replaced with skis or wheels.”  Ferrari Wheel  Back at sea and flying through the chop at 45 knots aboard
the  J Craft  Torpedo Boat, Swedish marine designer Johan Attvik
says his 750,000-euro retro wood speedster can do everything
Lisa does except land on snow and dirt. The tender’s steering
wheel is a replica of one on the 1963 250 GTO Ferrari, the
searchlight is a copy from a 1930 Bugatti and the Italian fabric
from Loro Piana can repel red-wine stains.  “The King of Sweden has one,” Attvik says, tapping a
stainless-steel plaque that declares 007 actor  Roger Moore  was
here. “James Bond himself told me that all of the Bond girls
would be at home on a Torpedo Boat. Next year, we start selling
Torpedo Boats in art galleries and at film festivals.”  Fortune says superyachting toys keep morale up in the face
of recession. At the same time, cash shortages also are
frightening more owners to embrace novel methods of sidestepping
marine taxes. “The length to which someone who has spent a few
hundred million on a superyacht will go to elude value added tax
is remarkable,” Fortune says.  Luxembourg Navy  It takes 400,000 hours to build a 132-foot superyacht but
to understand how 75 of them became vessels in the Grand Duchy
of Luxembourg merchant navy and avoid VAT, it helps to know
something about European MP  Robert Goebbels , who during his
tenure as Luxembourg’s Minister of Economy and Transport in 1994
launched the Luxembourg Merchant Marine.  Goebbels designed a regulation that today has 15,000
pleasure-vessel owners paying 2,200 euros a year for the right
to fly Luxembourg’s red-lion flag and declare the ship a
commercial vessel involved in the charter business, says
European maritime attorney Andre Harpes.  “Robbie’s merchant-navy option gives the owner VAT
exemption,” says Jean-Pierre Vernier, a director of  Integral
Maritime Solutions SARL  in Luxembourg, a land-locked country
without any lions in its forests.  “The trick is to wrap the vessel’s ownership in a maze of
companies no government has the time or money to untangle and
then charter it to yourself,” Fortune says. “It’s likely more
expensive than just paying the VAT, but such is superyacht life
in the 21st century.”  To contact the writer on the story:
A.  Craig Copetas  in Paris at 
 ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 