-- Suzlon Sees Asian Demand Ending Turbine Overcapacity in 2012
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2010-09-30T19:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/suzlon-s-tanti-sees-asian-demand-ending-excess-turbine-capacity-in-2012.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. , India’s biggest 
wind-turbine maker, said the industry will no longer have excess
capacity in two years as demand from the Asian market increases.  “No doubt capacity is in surplus today, but we are
expecting it will be fully utilized in 2012,” Suzlon Chairman
 Tulsi Tanti  said in an interview in Lisbon today. “The wind
turbine industry was quite heavily affected by the economic
crisis. Today I can say the worst part is over.”  The market for wind turbines will be unchanged this year
from 2009, and may increase next year and in 2012, the chairman
of the Ahmedabad-based company said. Turbine prices have
“stabilized” and Tanti said he doesn’t see them declining
further.  Suzlon earlier this month said it plans to expand capacity
at its plant in China, the world’s fastest-growing green-energy
market. General Electric Co. and European rivals are also
opening factories in China as they compete for orders.  “The need of the Asian market is really high,” Tanti
said. “Today we are just talking about India and China, but if
you take the whole of Asia, it’s a very large requirement
there.”  The company is also installing a factory in Brazil and has
a plan to develop a plant in South Africa.  “High growth and opportunities are all in emerging
markets” like India, China, Brazil, South Africa, Argentina,
Chile and Mexico, Tanti said. “We are concentrating on those
markets and that is giving the business growth.”  European Holdings  Suzlon fell 0.30, or 30 paise, to 52.4 rupees today in
Mumbai trading. The  shares  have declined 42 percent so far this
year, compared with a 15 percent increase in the benchmark
 Sensitive Index . Tanti has no plans to sell a stake in the
company, which he said in a Sept. 13 interview will return to
profit this financial year.  In Europe, Suzlon owns stakes in Belgium-based gearbox
maker  Hansen Transmissions International NV  and  Repower Systems
AG , a German wind-turbine maker.  “We are positioning Repower in the offshore market
strongly,” Tanti said. Suzlon owns 90.5 percent of Repower and
Tanti said Suzlon hopes to acquire the remaining stake.  Suzlon has no immediate plans to sell its 26 percent stake
in  Hansen , Tanti said. He declined to comment on whether there
is a value at which Suzlon would be willing to sell that
holding. Suzlon sold a 35.2 percent interest in Hansen on Nov.
19 to help pare debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joao Lima  in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 