-- Swiss Tax Treaty With Germany May Finish Bank Secrecy in Europe
-- B y   W a r r e n   G i l e s
-- 2010-10-01T09:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/swiss-tax-treaty-with-germany-may-finish-bank-secrecy-in-europe.html
Switzerland’s tax treaty with Germany
may finish banking secrecy in Europe and prompt withdrawals as
Swiss banks will no longer guarantee client confidentiality.  The treaty will allow investigators to request Swiss
assistance in tracking down undeclared money deposited by German
nationals, said Eric Jucker, a Zurich-based tax lawyer. It
probably will be signed this month by Swiss Finance Minister
 Hans-Rudolf Merz  and his German counterpart  Wolfgang Schaeuble .  “The agreement that will come into force will go very much
further on the information that can be exchanged between
officials,” Jucker said. “Banking secrecy will come to an end”
for clients who are not Swiss as the country adopts 
international tax standards, he said.  Germans are the biggest clients of Swiss money managers
with assets of about 260 billion francs ($264 billion),
according to estimates from Geneva-based broker Helvea. Swiss
banks, including  Julius Baer Group Ltd.  and Bank Sarasin & Cie.,
are now setting up branches around Europe to retain cross-border
clients.  The German accord follows standards set out in
Switzerland’s agreement with the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development in March 2009 after the country was
threatened with being blacklisted as a tax haven. It will spell
out circumstances under which Switzerland will give Germany
“administrative assistance” in cases where there is evidence
of tax evasion, said Mario Tuor, a spokesman for the  Swiss State
Secretariat  for International Financial Matters in Bern.  ‘Dramatic Change’  “This is a dramatic change because until recently there was
no chance a foreign tax authority could get hold of
information,” said Kurt Blickenstorfer, a lawyer at Bratschi
Wiederkehr & Buob in Zurich.  A name and a bank account may be enough for Germany to
request information from Switzerland, said Daniel Fischer,
founder of Zurich-based AFP Fischer & Partner law firm who
specializes in banking law and fraud.  “The main question is how they will define reasonable
suspicion and how far back the German tax authorities will be
allowed to look,” Fischer said. “Things are getting much more
complicated for swindlers.”  The treaty comes 14 months after the Swiss government
agreed to turn over details of as many as 4,450 UBS AG accounts
to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service to settle a lawsuit over
suspected tax evasion.  More Disclosures  While the UBS deal spurred more than 14,700 Americans to
disclose secret offshore accounts to the IRS, the crackdown on
German clients will be more significant for Swiss banks, which
hold more than 25 percent of the world’s offshore wealth, said
Milan Patel, tax attorney at Sharp Kemm PA in Zurich.  “The impact of this for Switzerland, and Zurich in
particular, will be huge in comparison with the U.S. deal,”
said Patel, who is a former litigator for the IRS.  There were more than 10,000 voluntary account declarations
in the six weeks following the German government’s February
announcement that it would use data stolen from wealth managers
to identify tax evaders.  The new treaty may trigger another round of disclosures,
said Hans-Ulrich Lauermann, the Frankfurt-based head of the
German financial services tax team at PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Switzerland’s Federal Tax Administration opened a  special
unit  today to examine requests for administrative assistance
from other governments. The unit can handle a “couple of dozen
cases” a year and employs the equivalent of five full-time
staff, said Thomas Brueckner, a spokesman for the tax authority.  Stolen Data  The German Finance Ministry said it plans to complete the
double taxation treaty this month. It wasn’t more specific.  The Swiss parliament has already approved 10 such tax
agreements, including those with the U.S., France and the U.K.,
while the government has initialed or signed accords with 18
other countries.  Swiss Finance Minister  Merz  told Sonntag newspaper in a
Sept. 26 interview that he wants guarantees that Germany won’t
continue to use stolen data. Swiss financial companies must also
gain access to the German market to help compensate banks for
the loss of secrecy, he said.  German prosecutors, using stolen data to probe undeclared
assets, began questioning clients of Credit Suisse Group AG in
August. That increased tensions between the two countries that
surfaced after the Swiss government adopted the OECD standards.  ‘Seventh Cavalry’  Swiss Defense Minister  Ueli Maurer  returned his Mercedes S-
Class, made by Stuttgart-based Daimler AG, last year to protest
German pressure over the tax regime.  That followed comments by then-German Finance Minister  Peer Steinbrueck  who called the threat of international sanctions on
Switzerland “like having the Seventh Cavalry in Fort Yuma that
can be ordered to ride out but doesn’t have to.  ‘‘The important thing is that the Indians know it exists,’’
he said.  The Swiss hope to retain an element of secrecy by proposing
a withholding tax on the interest, dividends, capital gains and
investment income earned by Germans with offshore bank accounts.
Under the plan from the Swiss Bankers Association, revenue from
the tax would go to the German Treasury and client identities
would remain secret.  Germany and the U.K. have both ‘‘hinted at having a lot of
interest in our proposals,’’ Swiss Bankers Association Chairman
 Patrick Odier  said on Sept. 16.  Lacking Transparency  While German Finance Minister  Schaeuble  said ‘‘a
combination of withholding tax and administrative assistance’’
would be part of the agreements, the U.K.’s HM Revenue and
Customs said last December that such taxes don’t meet OECD
standards for transparency.  Schaeuble said Sept. 3 that a solution for existing German
funds will be found, without giving details.  The withholding tax may prove insufficient to address the
history of tax evasion in Switzerland, said  Philip Marcovici , a
lawyer who last year helped negotiate a tax treaty between the
U.K. and Liechtenstein.  ‘‘Is there any immunity for banks or clients and will the
withholding be the final tax and a cure for the past?” said
Marcovici. “My suspicion is that it will not be because tax
authorities usually have a desire for more than just withholding
taxes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Warren Giles  in Geneva at 
 wgiles@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  