-- Swiss Stocks Drop on Europe Debt Concern; Credit Suisse, Julius Baer Fall
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2010-09-30T15:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/swiss-market-index-drops-on-irish-banks-bailout-credit-suisse-declines.html
Swiss stocks fell, paring a third-
quarter advance, as better-than-expected U.S. economic data
failed to alleviate concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
may worsen.  Credit Suisse Group AG  fell 2.2 percent and Julius Baer
Group Ltd. dropped 2.5 percent as Ireland bailed out another
lender and estimated the cost of rescuing its banks may rise to
as much as 50 billion euros ($68 billion).  Roche Holding AG , the
world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, and  Swatch Group  AG, the
maker of Omega and Breguet watches, helped limit losses after
analysts advised buying both shares.  The benchmark  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most
actively traded companies decreased 0.2 percent to 6,296.33 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, paring the gain this quarter to
2.8 percent. The broader  Swiss Performance Index  also dropped
0.2 percent today.  The SMI has dropped 9.6 percent from this year’s high on
April 15 as concern re-emerged that a sovereign-debt crisis in
Europe will crimp economic growth and hurt the value of
government bond holdings at banks. The index has traded in a
range of 6,047.16 and 6,503.12 since mid-July as investors
assess the strength of the global economic recovery.  “Our clients in the indices continue to sell any move
higher and buy any selloffs,” said  Simon Denham , chief
executive officer of  London Capital Group Holdings Plc  in
London. “At some point they will get it wrong as a break-out
occurs but for the time being ‘the range,’ it appears, is the
game to play.”  U.S. GDP  The SMI rebounded briefly as the U.S. government revised an
increase in gross domestic product that was more than the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The world’s
largest economy grew 3.7 percent in the first three months of
the year and 5 percent at the end of 2009.  Initial jobless claims in the U.S. decreased by 16,000 to
453,000 in the week ended Sept. 25, lower than the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington. The total number
of people receiving unemployment insurance and those getting
extended payments fell.  Credit Suisse , the second-biggest Swiss bank by assets,
fell 2.2 percent to 42 francs. Julius Baer, the 120-year-old
Swiss private bank, slipped 2.5 percent to 35.77 francs, its
fourth loss.  Ireland’s government is preparing to take majority control
of  Allied Irish Banks Plc  and pump extra cash into  Anglo Irish
Bank Corp . to draw a line under its financial crisis, the
government said today.  Irish Banks  The total cost of bailing out the country’s banks may
ultimately rise to about 50 billion euros, under a “stress
case” scenario for Anglo Irish, according to figures published
by the country’s finance ministry and the central bank in Dublin
today. The base case estimate is 45 billion euros, the figures
show. Allied Irish may need as much as 3 billion euros.  “Ireland have been forced to prop up their banks again as
the debt from their huge property companies goes ever more
sour,” said London Capital’s Denham said, “and the chances of
property values rallying to the extent of extracting them from
the mire seem very low.”  Roche , which has lost 24 percent this year, rose 2.1
percent to 134.2 francs.  “Roche is now trading at a discount of 12 percent to its
peers on the back of a surprisingly large number of pipeline
setbacks,” DZ Bank AG wrote in a report today. “Our view is
therefore that the market is overly negative about the outlook
for Roche.”  Swatch  climbed 1.9 percent to 369.7 francs. Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst  Luca Solca  upgraded the shares to
“outperform” from “market perform,” citing increasing sales
in China and more broadly from Asia.  Gategroup, Cosmo  Gategroup Holding AG slumped 8.1 percent to 39 francs. The
provider of airline services said it plans to raise about 200
million Swiss francs in a share sale. The rights offer is
expected to start after approval of a general shareholders
meeting on Oct. 26, the company said.  Cosmo Pharmaceuticals SpA jumped 15 percent to 18 francs.
The Italian developer of treatments for digestive-tract
infections said tests on its developing treatment for ulcerative
colitis posted positive results.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alexis Xydias  in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
 Adam Ewing  in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Merritt at   merritt1@bloomberg.net . 