-- U.K.’s FSA Proposes Tougher Customer-Complaint Rules
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2010-09-30T16:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/u-k-financial-regulator-proposes-tougher-bank-customer-complaint-rules.html
Britain’s financial regulator
proposed tougher rules for how banks must handle customer
complaints even as such grievances about customer service
reached the lowest level since 2006.  Banks should identify senior executives responsible for
handling complaints, abolish resolution methods that involve
multiple steps and identify the root causes of recurring
problems, the  Financial Services Authority  in London said in a
statement today.  “Good complaints-handling standards should be the rule,
not the exception, and complaints-handling forms a key part of
our intensive and intrusive approach to supervise how firms deal
with their customers,”  Sheila Nicoll , an FSA director, said in
the statement.  The number of complaints over general administration and
customer service in the first half of this year was the lowest
since the second half of 2006 at 596,606, according to data
posted on the FSA website today. Other complaints fell compared
with the second half of 2009, the agency said.  Banks had mixed results in different areas. Complaints
about banking decreased 50 percent, and complaints to banks and
building societies decreased by 44 percent. Complaints about
payment-protection insurance increased by 53 percent and
grievances about “advising, selling and arranging” increased
by 22 percent, the FSA said.  ‘Right to Know’  The publication of the data was the result of an agreement
between the banks and the FSA, the  Financial Services Consumer
Panel , an independent body that advises the FSA, said in a
statement.  “Consumers have the right to know about the level and type
of complaints made against banks,” the consumer panel said.
“Only when consumers are empowered with enough of the right
sort of information can they choose banks which will treat them
fairly.”  Politicians and business groups have criticized the banks
for failing to boost credit after they received government
bailouts and guarantees.  The Financial Ombudsman Service , another independent
agency, also publishes data on consumer complaints.  “The banking industry welcomes greater transparency, but
is concerned that the separate publication of complaints data by
the ombudsman and the regulator could lead to data overload,”
the British Bankers Association said in an e-mailed statement.
“What should be a useful overall summary could become a complex
and confusing exercise.”  The total number of complaints across the Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc was 166,172, the company said today. Barclays
Plc  reported  259,266 in the same period. Banco Santander SA said
the number of complaints in the U.K. for the six months to June
fell 7 percent to 245,000 and is equivalent to around 1,300
complaints per day. Lloyds Banking Group Plc said the number of
complaints in the six months was 288,717 across the group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nandini Sukumar  in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net 
 Erik Larson  in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 