-- U.K. Begins Cancer-Drug Fund Amid Warning Cash Won't Meet Patient Demand
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2010-09-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/u-k-begins-cancer-drug-fund-amid-warning-cash-won-t-meet-patient-demand.html
Britain today opened its Cancer Drugs
Fund, set up to pay for new treatments not available in the
state-funded health service, as specialist pharmacists warned it
may have less than half the money needed to meet demand.  The coalition government says the 50 million-pound ($79
million) fund is an interim measure until a full fund is
introduced in April. A British Oncology Pharmacy Association
study last month estimated the cost of supplying the relevant
drugs at between 85 million pounds and 119 million pounds.  Drugs that may be paid for by the fund include Avastin,
 Roche Holding AG ’s top-selling advanced bowel cancer treatment,
and  Bayer AG’s Nexavar  for liver cancer. Both drugs were
rejected this year by the agency that advises the National
Health Service on cost-effective treatments.  “My aim is to truly empower patients by giving them more
control over their care and helping them access the clinically
effective drugs that their doctors believe could improve their
quality of life,” Health Secretary  Andrew Lansley  said in a
statement. “I am working towards longer-term plans to change
the way we pay for drugs so patients get better access.”  The  Rarer Cancers Foundation , which campaigned for the
fund, rejected the BOPA study, saying the money would be
sufficient.  “We disagree with them completely,” Andrew Wilson, chief
executive of the foundation, said in an interview. In any case,
“50 million pounds is better than nothing,” he said.  The government hasn’t said how much money will be available
for the Cancer Drugs Fund from next year. During the campaign
for May’s election, Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the fund
will be worth 200 million pounds a year. BOPA estimates demand
may run to between 364 million pounds and 524 million pounds
next year.  The BOPA report also raises questions about which drugs
will be paid for by the fund. The Department of Health has
offered no specific guidance, saying only that the money is
intended for treatments currently unavailable to patients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 