-- U.K. House Prices Post `Marginal' Gain as Supply Increase Weighs on Market
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2010-09-30T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/u-k-house-prices-climbed-by-0-1-in-september-nationwide-says.html
U.K.  house prices  rose in September
by a “marginal” amount as increased supply of homes for sale
kept a lid on property values, Nationwide Building Society said.  The average cost of a home climbed by 0.1 percent to
166,757 pounds ($264,000) after a 0.8 percent drop in August,
Britain’s biggest customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed
statement today in Swindon, England. From a year earlier, prices
increased 3.1 percent, the least since November 2009.  Consumer confidence  dropped in September by more than
economists forecast as Britons’ pessimism on personal finances
and the economy deepened, GfK NOP said today. Data yesterday
showed  mortgage approvals  fell to a six-month low as the housing
market and the economic recovery showed signs of weakening.  “Buyers appear to have a slightly better hand than sellers
at the moment,” Nationwide Chief Economist  Martin Gahbauer  said
in the statement. “Where house prices go next will depend on
whether the strong flow of new property onto the market
continues into the autumn, and on the extent to which existing
sellers are willing to compromise on their asking price.”  House prices fell 1 percent in the third quarter as they
dropped in nine out of 13 U.K. regions. The declines were led by
Scotland with a 3.4 percent drop, while Northern Ireland was the
best-performing area with a 1.6 percent gain. Values in London
rose for the sixth quarter, posting a 0.4 percent increase.  GfK’s index of sentiment declined to minus 20 in September
after an increase to minus 18 in August, the London-based market
research company said in an e-mailed statement today. Economists
predicted minus 19, according to the median of 16 forecasts in a
 Bloomberg News survey .  Consumer Confidence  All four indexes measuring personal finances and the
economic situation in the past year and in the next 12 months
declined, GfK said. The only gauge to show an increase was the
measure of the climate for major purchases, which increased by
five points to minus 15.  Britain’s economy “has not materially picked up,”  Brian Brick , chief executive officer of  Moss Bros Group Plc , a U.K.
men’s clothing retailer, said in a statement yesterday. “We
remain in a period with tough economic conditions and consumer
uncertainty.”  Jobless benefit claims unexpectedly increased in August for
the first time in seven months. Services, which account for
about 75 percent of the economy, contracted for a second month
in July. That suggests the third quarter began with a slower
pace of growth after  gross domestic product  jumped 1.2 percent
in the three months through June.  Budget Cuts  The Conservative-led coalition government is preparing
spending cuts and tax increases totalling 113 billion pounds to
reduce the record  budget deficit . Bank of England policy maker
 Adam Posen  said on Sept. 28 that “subject to further debate, I
think further easing should be undertaken.”  There was no pay increase for government workers in the
quarter through August, according to the median settlement
recorded by salary research group Incomes Data Services. That
was offset by higher increases in service industries and
manufacturing, leaving the median for the economy at 2 percent.  “As the economy has slowly recovered, there has been a
general ‘defrosting’ of pay and benefits across much of the
private sector,”  Ken Mulkearn , editor of the IDS Pay Report,
said in a statement. “Inflation is forecast to remain
comparatively high, and if the economic recovery continues, pay
awards in the private sector could be centered on 3 percent.”  Nationwide’s Gahbauer was less upbeat on the prospects for
U.K. wages.  “Given the combination of a still-elevated unemployment
rate and the upcoming public-sector wage freezes, it seems
unlikely that earnings growth will accelerate much in the near
future” he said. “While this will continue to help companies
limit job losses, it will also continue to constrain confidence
in future incomes among potential homebuyers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  