-- Lipton, Altman See Slow Recovery in Financial System, Economy
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   P i m m   F o x
-- 2010-09-30T15:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/u-s-financial-system-economy-are-recovering-slowly-altman-lipton-say.html
The financial system is in a slow
state of recovery, and a pickup in takeovers will require more
confidence in the U.S. economy, according to Evercore Partners
Inc. Chairman  Roger Altman  and M&A lawyer  Martin Lipton .  “The U.S. has a lot of work to do,” Altman said in a
panel discussion at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in New York
today. “It will take a long time for final demand to improve.”  Mergers and acquisitions are on course to reach about
$2 trillion this year, compared with a record $4 trillion of
announced transactions at the peak of takeovers in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. There were $1.76
trillion of deals last year and $2.47 trillion in 2008.  While the third quarter of 2010 has been the busiest for
M&A in two years, there is still a “reluctance to get involved
in significant transactions,” said Lipton, who is a founding
partner of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz.  “There are sharp reactions in the market to meaningless
economic data,” said Lipton. “You don’t get this unless
there’s a lack of certainty.”  Lipton and Altman credited U.S. officials including Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, former Treasury Secretary Henry
Paulson and current Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner for
saving the financial system from collapse.  There has been further improvement in credit markets in
2010, said Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC Chief Executive Officer
 Donald Gogel , who noted that 2010 has been “one of the lowest
LBO loan-default years ever.”  All three panelists agreed that a U.S. economic recovery
would be gradual. The U.S. economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual
rate in the second quarter, revised figures from the Commerce
Department showed today, marking a slowdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Sherman  in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  