-- U.S. Dollar's Share of Global Reserves Expanded in 2nd Quarter, IMF Says
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2010-09-30T15:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/u-s-dollar-s-share-of-global-reserves-expanded-in-2nd-quarter-imf-says.html
The dollar’s share of global
foreign-exchange reserves rose in the second quarter while those
of the euro dropped, signaling investor demand for the
greenback’s safety amid Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The share of reserves held in the dollar rose to 62.1
percent in the second quarter from 61.7 percent in the previous
three months, the International Monetary Fund reported today.
Dollar reserves fell from the 62.8 percent held in the same
period a year ago.  The share held in euros fell to 26.5 percent from 27.2
percent in the previous quarter and an all-time high of 27.8
percent in the three months ended Sept. 30, 2009.  “Dollar holdings rose in the second quarter; that’s when
Europe had its mini-existential crisis,”  Richard Franulovich , a
senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in New York.
“The dollar share rose only because it’s the only realistic
alternative to the euro.”  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis took hold at the end of 2009
after Greece’s newly elected socialist government said the
budget deficit was twice as big as the previous administration
disclosed. In April, Greece asked to tap a European Union-
International Monetary Fund loan facility of 110 billion euros
($150 billion) after being shut out of debt markets. The EU then
passed a broader 750 billion-euro backstop for the rest of the
euro region.  Currency Flows  The yen’s share of global reserves rose to 3.3 percent from
3.1 percent, and the pound’s slipped to 4.2 percent from 4.3
percent, the Washington-based IMF said in a statement.  Some central banks are increasing their purchases of
dollars rather than imposing capital controls to weaken their
currencies.  The yen has appreciated 11 percent versus the dollar this
year, spurring the Bank of Japan to sell its currency on Sept.
15 in an attempt to curb the rally that has hampered the
country’s export-led economic recovery.  Brazil’s central bank bought $5.9 billion in the first 12
days of September, the most in 11 months to stem the real’s
gains, according to  Altamir Lopes , the head of the bank’s
economic department. South Africa’s Reserve Bank incurred a loss
of 1.05 billion rand ($151 million) in the year through March
due to the cost of building foreign currency reserves to stem
rand gains, according to its annual report released on Sept. 22.  The real has advanced 2.8 percent versus the dollar and the
rand has gained 5.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Catarina Saraiva  in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ; 