-- U.S. Auto Sales in September May Have Been Best Since March
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2010-09-30T13:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/u-s-auto-sales-in-september-may-have-been-best-since-march.html
U.S. automobile  sales  in September
may have run at the fastest pace since March as consumers
returned to showrooms, helping the industry’s recovery from the
worst year in almost three decades.  Industrywide deliveries, to be released tomorrow, may have
reached an annual rate of 11.7 million vehicles this month, the
average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That
would top the 9.4 million pace of last September, the month
after the U.S. “cash for clunkers” program ended, and match
March’s 11.7 million rate, according to Autodata Corp.  Consumers are slowly returning to dealers’ showrooms while
remaining concerned about the security of their jobs, said  Paul Ballew , chief economist for Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. in
Columbus, Ohio. Deliveries for all of last year fell to 10.4
million, the lowest since 1982, compared with the average 16.8
million vehicles a year from 2000 to 2007.  “It confirms to us that the recovery has gained a little
bit of momentum in the third quarter and is somewhat back on
track, but it is still a very slow recovery,” Ballew, a former
General Motors Corp. economist, said in a telephone interview.  The Conference Board reported on Sept. 28 that  consumer
sentiment  this month declined to the weakest level since
February. The U.S.  unemployment rate  was 9.6 percent in August,
up from 9.5 percent in July.  The U.S. auto selling rate has stayed above 11 million
since March, according to Autodata, a research firm based in
Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.  Replacing Vehicles  Chrysler Group LLC, based in Auburn Hills, Michigan, may
have led U.S. automakers with a 48 percent sales increase, the
average of six analysts’ estimates, helped by higher deliveries
to fleet customers.  Ford Motor Co.  may post a 40 percent sales increase, the
average of six analysts’ estimates.  Deliveries by Detroit-based  General Motors Co.  will rise 13
percent, the average of three estimates. GM’s market share will
fall to 18 percent, one of its lowest levels since World War II,
according to TrueCar.com, an automotive pricing website based in
Santa Monica, California. Edmunds.com, also based in Santa
Monica, expects GM to hold 18.3 percent of the market.  “GM has some hot new models, but also some older vehicles
that they need to replace or get rid of,” said Ivan Drury, an
Edmunds analyst.  Consumers are buying new cars and trucks largely because
they must replace vehicles that have come off lease or broken
down, said  Jeff Schuster , executive director of forecasting at
J.D. Power & Associates in Troy, Michigan.  ‘Taking Cover’  “The consumer is still taking cover and still a little
confused by how to read all of the variables out there,”
Schuster said in a telephone interview. “Confidence is still
skittish with the consumer and I think it’s something that’s
going to take a little bit longer to come back, even once we
look at an economy that’s actually growing again.”  The worst recession since the 1930s ended in June 2009, the
National Bureau of Economic Research’s Business Cycle Dating
Committee said Sept. 20.  The U.S. economy grew at a 1.7 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, according to the Commerce Department’s revised
figure today. That’s down from 3.7 percent during the first
three months of the year and 5 percent at the end of 2009.  Retail Gains  Sales to individual consumers, as opposed to fleet buyers
such as rental-car companies, may rise to a 9.5 million pace,
the average of four analysts’ estimates.  That would be the first time since mid-2008 that the retail
rate exceeded 9 million vehicles for three straight months,
 Chris Ceraso , a Credit Suisse AG analyst, said in a Sept. 28
note.  Fleet sales will account for 19 percent of deliveries, up
from 16 percent in August, Ceraso said.  Small businesses and fleet customers may have contributed
to higher truck sales, said  Joe Barker , senior manager of North
American vehicle sales forecasts at IHS Automotive, a Lexington,
Massachusetts-based researcher.  “They put a lot of miles on them every year and they beat
them up every year and it’s time to replace them,” said Barker,
who is based in Northville, Michigan.  Tight credit for some consumers restrained deliveries, with
buyers who missed mortgage payments being denied or asked to
prepay as much as 30 percent of the sticker price, said  Jesse Toprak , vice president of industry trends for TrueCar.  “Banks have placed limits on who they will accept,” said
Frank Ursomarso, a GMC-Buick and Honda dealer in Wilmington,
Delaware. “They used to offer tougher terms on loans. Now they
just say no.”  Incentives Trimmed  Automakers decreased sales incentives and discounts by an
average of 2 percent from last year, which may have kept sales
from gaining more, according to TrueCar.  Ford, based in Dearborn, Michigan, was the only U.S.
automaker to raise incentive spending, TrueCar said. Ford’s
average discounts rose 7.4 percent from last year to $2,797 per
vehicle, while Chrysler decreased incentive spending by 23
percent to $3,787 and GM cut them by 11 percent to $3,403.  Honda Motor Co.’s sales growth may have outpaced its
Japanese rivals. The automaker’s deliveries may have risen 32
percent, according to four analysts’ estimates.  Nissan Motor Co.’s sales may have climbed 30 percent and
Toyota Motor Corp.’s may have increased 21 percent, according to
four estimates.  Honda’s incentive spending rose 68 percent to an average of
$2,166, according to TrueCar. Toyota boosted discounts by 38
percent to $1,870, and Nissan increased them 10 percent to
$2,980.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from September 2009. Forecasts for the seasonally
adjusted annual rate, or SAAR, are in millions of vehicles.  September had 25 selling days, the same as a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tim Higgins  at   thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 