-- U.S. Postal Service Denied Rate Increase by Regulator
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2010-09-30T18:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/u-s-postal-service-denied-another-rate-increase-by-regulatory-commission.html
The U.S. Postal Service was denied
a rate increase after its regulator said the agency failed to
justify the request. The decision left first-class stamp prices
unchanged at 44 cents and disappointed the postmaster general.  The  Postal Regulatory Commission  in Washington today said
the service hadn’t made the case for its proposed average
increase of 5.6 percent, compared with an inflation rate of 0.6
percent. The service said in July that the recession had cut
mail volume and revenue.  “There will be no rate increases as a result of our
decision for any class of mail,”  Ruth Goldway , chairman of the
regulatory commission, said at a Washington news conference.  Groups representing banks, magazine publishers and
retailers praised the commission’s decision after criticizing
the proposed rate increase and saying it may hasten a decline in
mail volume.  The requests were “not due to the recent recession, or its
impact on mail volume,” Goldway said. “Rather, they represent
an attempt to address long-term structural problems not caused
by the recent recession.”  The Postal Service will review the decision and consider
additional options for remaining viable, Postmaster General  John Potter  said in a statement. The agency said it has $2 billion in
cash and available credit, meeting its financial obligations.  “We are disappointed to learn that the Postal Regulatory
Commission has denied our price filing,” Potter said. “We are
encouraged by their acknowledgment and understanding of the
larger financial risk we face through the mandated prefunding of
retiree health benefits.”  Inflation Rate  The commission would be likely to approve a revised request
from the Postal Service for an increase at about the rate of
inflation, Goldway said. The Postal Service may raise rates
annually as much as the rate of inflation.  The service has projected a deficit of $238 billion through
2020. Mail use has been dropping as customers use the Internet
to pay monthly bills and read publications previously delivered
by mail. Profitable types of mail are falling faster than less-
profitable categories.  Today’s decision “has helped countless businesses stay
competitive and saved tens of thousands of jobs,” Tony Conway,
a spokesman for the Affordable Mail Alliance, said in an e-
mailed statement. The group lists as members Time Warner Inc.’s
Time Inc., mail-order pharmacy supplier  Medco Health Solutions
Inc ., publisher  Meredith Corp ., direct mailer  Harte-Hanks Inc .
and printer R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co.  Saturday Delivery  The higher rates would have been the first for the Postal
Service in two years, the agency said in July. The Postal
Service also is seeking approval from Congress to end Saturday
delivery for the first time since six-day service began in 1863.  The Postal Service has also been trying to win permission
from Congress to postpone required payments toward future
retiree health benefits, Potter said Aug. 5. Goldway said today
the service had spent $5.5 billion this year on the retiree
benefits.  Senator Tom Carper, a Delaware Democrat, last week
introduced legislation that would ease Postal Service pension
and retiree benefit payment requirements and make it easier for
the agency to close post offices or eliminate Saturday delivery.  Packages typically used to ship books, videos and
merchandise faced an average increase of 7 percent under the
request rejected today. The rate would have increased 23 percent
for parcels under 1 pound, Maura Robinson, Postal Service vice
president for pricing, said in July when the request was
announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Todd Shields  in Washington at 
 Tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 