-- AIG Credit-Default Swaps Touch Pre-Crisis Low After U.S. Accord
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2010-09-30T22:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-gauge-little-changed-index-shows.html
The cost to protect  American
International Group Inc. ’s debt fell to the lowest since July
2008 after the insurer agreed with U.S. regulators to repay its
bailout by converting the government’s stake into common shares.  Credit-default swaps on AIG dropped 13.5 basis points to a
mid-price of 242.9 in New York, according to data-provider CMA.
Earlier, the contracts fell as low as 230, according to broker
Phoenix Partners Group, losing 374 basis points since May 25 and
3,453 basis points from their record in May 2009. They last
closed below 240 on July 25, 2008.  “AIG appears to be an incredible story of redemption,”
said  David Havens , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New
York. “The overall sentiment toward AIG has obviously improved
dramatically over the past year, and AIG seems to be falling
back into the realm of normalcy.”  The company, once the world’s largest insurer, turned
over a majority stake to the government in exchange for a rescue
that swelled to $182 billion. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the bailout, a day after the September 2008
failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., made him “more
angry” than any other episode in the financial crisis.  The U.S. Treasury will convert its preferred stake of about
$49.1 billion into 1.66 billion shares of common stock and then
sell the holdings in the open market, AIG said today in a
statement. Common shareholders, who hold about 20 percent of the
company, will have their stake diluted to about 7.9 percent, the
insurer said.  AIG Bond Sale  The step toward independence for AIG, whose  near collapse 
two years ago threatened the global economy, follows Chairman
 Steve Miller ’s announcement yesterday that the company will sell
bonds for the first time since the bailout.  “The news is a credit positive for the company, though
there is no assurance the company will maintain a single-A
rating ex-government support,” CreditSights Inc. analysts
including  Robert Haines  wrote in a note to clients. “There are
still many hurdles before the company’s restructuring is
complete. We believe it is difficult to envision another major
catalyst for significant spread tightening from here aside from
some modest positive momentum following today’s announcements.”  AIG’s 30-year, 6.25 percent bonds issued March 6, 2007,
increased 3.56 cents to 86.06 on the dollar to yield 7.47
percent, or 378 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, according to Trace, the bond-pricing reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The swaps may be nearing fair value as they approach levels
similar to those of their peers, according to Havens.  Other Insurers  “It’s hard to make the case at least in the CDS that
spreads are too wide at this point, because you’re really not
all that far away from where a lot of the other insurance
companies are,” Havens said.  Contracts on  MetLife Inc.  fell 7 basis points to 222 and
those on Hartford Financial Services Group Inc., an insurer
whose investment losses in 2008 led to a U.S. bailout, eased 6.9
basis points to 238.5, according to data provider CMA.  Credit-default swaps on the Markit CDX North America Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell for a third day,
losing 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 106.8 basis points,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. The index,
which typically falls as investor confidence improves, is
trading near its lowest level since rolling to a new series on
Sept. 20.  Business Activity  Business activity  unexpectedly accelerated in September,
with the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago’s business
index climbing to 60.4, more than the highest estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, a sign manufacturers are
at the forefront of the recovery.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings added 0.9 basis point to 111.5, and the
Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50
companies with mostly high-yield ratings added 3 basis points to
512, Markit prices show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mary Childs  in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  