-- Uganda's Government Rejects United Nations Report on War Crimes in Congo
-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 2010-09-30T10:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/uganda-s-government-rejects-united-nations-report-on-war-crimes-in-congo.html
Uganda ’s government rejected as
false a draft United Nations report implicating the nation’s
army in human rights violations in neighboring Democratic
Republic of Congo from 1993 to 2003.  The report by the UN High Commission for Human Rights
implicating the Ugandan army in war crimes and crimes against
humanity was premised on “a compendium of rumors deeply flawed
in methodology, sourcing and standard of proof,” Foreign
Minister  Sam Kutesa  said in a letter to the commission. A copy
of the brief was distributed to the media yesterday by the
state-run Uganda Media Center in Kampala, the capital.  “Uganda rejects that draft report in its entirety and
demands that it not be published,” Kutesa said.  Ugandan and Rwandan forces helped former Congolese
President  Laurent Kabila  in a 1996-1997 war that toppled former
dictator  Mobutu Sese Seko , according to  GlobalSecurity.org , the
Washington-based research group. Ugandan forces were also
involved in subsequent wars in eastern Congo from 1998 to 2004
in which 3.8 million people died, it said.  The UN human rights agency said yesterday it will publish
on Oct. 1 a report on the “most serious” human-rights violations
in the Congo from 1993 to 2003. It didn’t provide any details on
the contents of the report.  Last month, neighboring  Rwanda  also rejected the draft UN
report, which the government said accused the Rwandan army of
atrocities in Congo during the 1990s, including the possible
genocide of ethnic Hutus.  Kutesa said authors of the UN document exhibited bias by
failing to consult Uganda over the alleged rights abuses by the
Uganda Peoples Defense Forces during the two years in which it
was drafted. The report undermines Uganda’s participation in
various peacekeeping missions, including in Somalia, he said.  The UN report is also “curiously” silent about the Allied
Democratic Forces and National Army for Liberation of Ugandan,
two rebel groups fighting Uganda, as well as the renegade
Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda that are based in
eastern Congo, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fred Ojambo  in Kampala via Johannesburg at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 