-- Ambani Tops India’s Rich as Billionaires’ List Swells
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-09-30T07:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/mukesh-ambani-lakshmi-mittal-azim-premji-top-forbes-india-richest-list.html
Mukesh Ambani  held his ranking as
India’s richest person with net worth of $27 billion as the
nation’s economic expansion and a stock market rally created a
record number of billionaires, Forbes India said.  Arcelor Mittal  Chairman  Lakshmi Mittal  was second richest
with $26.1 billion this year, while  Wipro Ltd . Chairman  Azim Premji  ranked third with net worth of $17.6 billion, the
magazine said in an e-mailed statement today. Brothers Shashi
and Ravi Ruia, whose  Essar  Group has interests in  oil refining ,
steel and power generation, climbed one level to fourth position
with a combined wealth of $15 billion.  An increasing number of wealthy Indians may attract  Bill Gates  to the South Asian nation to seek pledges of donations for
the Bill and  Melinda Gates  Foundation. Rising disposable incomes
and consumer demand may this year drive expansion in Asia’s
fastest growing major economy after China to the quickest annual
pace since 2008.  “We may do an event in India,” Gates, the chairman of
 Microsoft Corp ., said today at a philanthropy event in Beijing.  Record Wealth  The Indian billionaires list comprised 69 people, up from
52 last year. The combined net worth of the nation’s 100
wealthiest people climbed to an all-time high of $300 billion
this year, equivalent to a quarter of the country’s gross
domestic product, the magazine’s statement said.  A 50 percent surge in foreign funds into equities so far
this year helped drive the Bombay Stock Exchange’s  Sensitive
Index  to its highest level in 2 1/2 years this month. More than
72 of the top 100 ranked people saw their wealth increase in the
past year, the Forbes statement said.  Savitri Jindal , chairman of  Jindal Steel  & Power Ltd., was
fifth richest with net worth of $14.4 billion. Kalantihi Maran,
owner of discount carrier  Spicejet  Ltd. and founder of Sun
Network Ltd., made it into the top 20 this year with his net
worth rising 74 percent. He ranked 17 with $4 billion, according
to the magazine.  Still,  Anil Ambani , who owns the Anil Dhirubhai Ambani
Group with  telecom , financial services and power businesses, saw
his wealth shrink 24 percent, the biggest reduction, to $13.3
billion, putting him at sixth place. Brother Mukesh’s wealth
dropped by 15 percent as lower refining margins and stagnant gas
production from the nation’s biggest field led to a decline in
 Reliance Industries Ltd . share price.  The brothers, who split the family empire in 2005, in May
this year by scrapping agreements that had fueled a feud between
them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Margo Towie  at 
 mtowie@bloomberg.net  