-- Ambani Tops India Rich List; Zong Becomes China's Wealthiest
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2010-09-30T07:55:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/mukesh-ambani-tops-india-rich-list-as-zong-becomes-china-s-wealthiest-man.html
Mukesh Ambani  retained his position
as India’s richest person with an estimated fortune more than
double that of China’s wealthiest individual, according to
surveys published today.  Ambani, the owner of India’s largest company by  market
value , is worth $27 billion, Forbes India said today in an e-
mailed statement. Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co. Chairman  Zong Qinghou  topped the list in China with $12 billion, according to
the Hurun Rich List.  Zong’s and Ambani’s diverging paths to ultra-wealth reflect
China’s rise in just over three decades from a country that
banned private enterprise to the world’s second-largest economy.
Ambani and his brother Anil, who is India’s sixth-richest person
according to Forbes, inherited Reliance Industries Ltd. from
their father Dhirubhai. Zong left school at 18 and built
Wahaha into a company with 30 billion yuan ($4.5 billion) of 
assets and 30,000 employees.  “In terms of the rich people here in China, the thing
that’s unusual is that 30 years ago there really weren’t people
of great wealth,”  Bill Gates , the world’s second-richest man,
said at a press conference in Beijing today. “So what you have
is first-generation fortunes.”  Zong rose from No. 12 on last year’s Hurun list.  Wang Chuanfu  of Warren Buffett-backed BYD Co., the No. 1 in 2009,
slipped to 12th as his fortune shrank 10 percent to $4.6 billion.  Gates, Buffett  Ambani’s fortune decreased by $5 billion from a year
earlier as his company’s shares fell amid lower refining margins
and stagnant gas production from India’s biggest field. Arcelor
Mittal Chairman  Lakshmi Mittal  ranked second with $26.1 billion,
followed by Wipro Ltd. Chairman  Azim Premji  at $17.6 billion,
according to Forbes India.  Forbes and Hurun published their lists as  Microsoft Corp. 
co-founder Gates and Buffett, the world’s third-richest person,
are in Beijing for meetings with Chinese business leaders to
raise awareness of philanthropy in China.  Buffett, the chairman of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., has donated the bulk of his fortune to the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation and makes annual gifts to charities
seeking to ease hunger, boost education in the U.S. and promote
access to abortions.  Gates may attend a similar meeting in India in 2011.  “We may do an event in India but again, just a discussion
to hear what’s going on there and I’m sure we’ll find out that
there are a lot of similarities and a lot of differences,” Gates
said.  New Billionaires  Zong, 65, founded Wahaha, which means “laughing child” in
Chinese, in 1987. He built the company, formerly the sales
department in a school-run business in the eastern Chinese city
of Hangzhou, into a nationwide food and beverage maker, fighting
dozens of lawsuits against former partner Groupe Danone SA along
the way. Wahaha isn’t publicly traded.  Shan Qining , a spokesman for Wahaha, said Zong is traveling
abroad and isn’t available to comment.  Shenzhen Hepalink Pharmaceutical Co. Chairman Li Li and his
family were ranked the second-richest in China with $6 billion,
followed by Nine Dragons Paper Holdings Ltd.’s Zhang Yin with
$5.6 billion, according to the Hurun report’s website.  Like Zong, Li and Zhang founded their companies.  “The marked difference (from India) is partly due to the
different historical and cultural backgrounds and traditions in
the two countries,” said  Dong Xian’an , an economist at
Shanghai-based Industrial Securities Co.  Rupert Hoogewerf , who founded the Hurun Report, said in an
interview today that the organization identified 400 new Chinese
individuals with fortunes exceeding 1 billion yuan this year,
partly driven by stock sales on the ChiNext board for startup
companies that opened 11 months ago in Shenzhen.  “We’ve seen ChiNext create a whole lot of new wealth that
we didn’t even know existed,” Hoogewerf said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net  