-- Hungary Has Second Conscutive Quarterly Current-Account Surplus on Imports
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-09-30T07:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/hungary-has-second-conscutive-quarterly-current-account-surplus-on-imports.html
Hungary recorded its second
consecutive  current-account surplus  in the second quarter after
the worst recession since 1991 curbed demand for imports and
European Union transfers helped improve the balance.  The surplus was 418 million euros ($568 million), compared
with a revised 448 million euros in the first quarter and a
revised surplus of 161 million euros in the year-ago period, the
 Magyar Nemzeti Bank  said today. The median estimate of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 555 million-euro
surplus.  Hungary’s current-account balance has been improving after
an  economic contraction  of 6.3 percent last year reduced
consumer demand and companies imported fewer parts and raw
materials as they scaled back output. Growth resumed in the
fourth quarter of 2009.  “The surplus on real economic transactions continued to be
higher than the deficit on the income account,” the central
bank said. “From the beginning of 2009, seasonally adjusted
export revenue and import expenditure both exceeded the levels
recorded in the preceding quarters.”  The forint traded at 277.73 per euro at 9:08 a.m. in
Budapest from 277.18 late yesterday.  Hungary recorded its 18th consecutive monthly trade surplus
in July as recovering growth in western Europe boosted demand
for exports, the statistics office said today. The surplus
totaled 240.7 million euros, compared with 563.9 million euros
in June and 328 million euros in July 2009.  Accounting Change  The central bank changed its accounting methodology for the
cost of transportation of imported goods and revised the figures
for the preceding quarters as part of its regular practice on
Sept. 30. Under the new methodology, the bank calculates with
higher transportation costs, shaving about 100 million euros of
the final current-account figure each quarter, said Judit Antal,
deputy head at the bank’s financial analysis department.  Under the revised figures, the balance for the fourth
quarter of 2009 swung into a deficit of 401 million euros from a
surplus of 446 million euros, pushing the full-year 2009 balance
into a deficit of 429 million euros.  The change is the result of a foreign-based company
restructuring its local subsidiaries, the central bank said. The
company, which the bank refused to name, set up two new units
and revaluated its existing holdings. The transaction has no
impact on the total of direct investments, the bank said.  In the second quarter, the balance of European Union
transfers showed an 806 million euro surplus in the second
quarter. The country’s external financing capacity, the combined
surplus on its current and capital accounts, was 806 million
euros, or a seasonally adjusted 2.8 percent of  gross domestic
product .  The current account, the widest measure of the difference
between money flowing into the country and funds going out, has
showed a narrowing deficit before swinging into a surplus in the
second quarter of last year.  To contact the reporter on for this story:
 Edith Balazs  in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  