-- Hungary Seeks to Boost Credit Rating by Cutting Budget Deficit, Varga Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2010-09-30T14:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/hungary-seeks-to-boost-credit-rating-by-cutting-budget-deficit-varga-says.html
The Hungarian government’s goal is
to ensure that the country’s credit rating improves, Deputy
Prime Minister Mihaly Varga said.  “It is our aim to turn around the current trend of Hungary
being the only country in central Europe that has seen its
credit rating deteriorate in the past years,” Varga said at a
conference in the southern Hungarian city of Szeged.  Hungary, which has failed to bring its budget  deficit  below
the European Union limit of 3 percent of economic production
since joining the bloc in 2004, has pledged to meet the target
in 2011. Credit-rating companies have warned that only concrete
measures will remove the threat of a downgrade.  Standard & Poor’s lowered the outlook on Hungary’s BBB-
rating to negative in July and a one-step cut would reduce the
grade to junk for the first time since 1992. Moody’s Investors
Service is also reviewing Hungary for possible downgrade,
though it rates the country Baa1, two steps higher than S&P.  S&P and Moody’s have each cut Hungary’s credit rating three
times since 2006. The most recent rating changes for Poland and
the Czech Republic have been increases.  The Hungarian government will follow an economic policy
that focuses on fostering growth while “ensuring a sustainable
fiscal balance,” Varga said. He reiterated that this year’s
budget deficit will be 3.8 percent of gross domestic product and
that the gap “won’t surpass” 3 percent in 2011.  Hungary “must not relent” from its commitment to adopt
the euro “as soon as possible,” Varga said. The government
needs to come up with a “credible road map” that lets Hungary
join the euro zone within a “realistic” timeframe, he said.  The country has missed several self-imposed euro adoption
target dates because of a lack of fiscal rigor. Hungary
currently doesn’t meet any of the adoption criteria, Varga said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  