-- UniCredit Names 30-Year Veteran Ghizzoni CEO After Profumo
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2010-10-01T14:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/unicredit-names-30-year-veteran-ghizzoni-to-top-job-after-profumo-departs.html
Federico Ghizzoni , appointed chief
executive officer of  UniCredit SpA  yesterday, will review the
bank’s strategy in central and eastern Europe, boosting
investments in Russia, Turkey, Poland and the Czech Republic.  “In terms of significant investments we will concentrate
on a few countries, the largest ones,” Ghizzoni said during a
press conference in Milan today. “Russia, Poland, Turkey are
our three major markets.” UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, also
plans to open new branches in the Czech Republic.  He didn’t rule out UniCredit exiting some countries, though
he didn’t identify them. The bank will focus on “selective
product lines” in “weaker” countries, Ghizzoni said, adding
that he doesn’t exclude acquisitions in the bank’s main markets
in central and eastern Europe. No negotiations are under way.  Ghizzoni, who was picked to replace  Alessandro Profumo  in
the top job, is a 30-year UniCredit veteran who steered the
lender’s east European businesses through the financial crisis.
The bank, which generates more than half of its revenue outside
Italy, is seeking to end friction with some investors by
promoting an insider who began as a local customer relations
manager and later ran operations from London to Istanbul.  The new CEO aims to outline a new business plan to the
board by the end of the year, while a deadline for a
presentation to the market isn’t scheduled yet, Ghizzoni said.  General Managers  The bank will review a new  management  structure over coming
weeks and Ghizzoni will start discussions within days to appoint
one or two general managers. Italian banking foundations that
own more than 11 percent of UniCredit favor increased lending
and investment at home, a strategy that led to clashes with
former CEO Alessandro Profumo.  “A new CEO, especially from within the firm, rarely makes
a radical break with the past, but we see signs of protectionism
everywhere in times of stress,” said  Chad  Deakins before
today’s presentation, who oversees the $275 million Ridgeworth
International Active Fund in Atlanta and holds UniCredit shares.
“He may slow down some expansion.”  Ghizzoni, 54, who took over the central and eastern
European business just as the subprime crisis unfolded, told
reporters that he still plans to find a partner for UniCredit’s
Pioneer asset management unit and the lender is evaluating
options.  The bank’s priorities include the planned reorganization of
its Italian units, Ghizzoni said in a letter to employees today.
“I will meet unions in coming days to discuss the planned job
cuts,” he said. The plan designed by Profumo was among the
issues that sparked tension between the former CEO and
shareholders.  ‘Political Grip’  Ghizzoni, named a deputy CEO of UniCredit in August, beat
out 45-year-old  Roberto Nicastro , another deputy CEO, for the
top job. Ghizzoni and the other deputy CEOs have been dubbed
“Profumo boys” by the Italian media because the former chief
executive promoted all four through the ranks.  “Our concern is that the appointment may lead to a tighter
political grip on the bank’s management, which we see as a
negative,”  Silvia Benzi , an analyst at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux in Milan, who has an “underperform” rating on the
stock, wrote in a note to investors today. “He will preserve
the group’s international strategy and ensure business
continuity,” she said.  In the 1990s, Ghizzoni served as deputy general manager of
the London office and later ran the Singapore office. He was
chosen to head UniCredit’s Polish unit,  Warsaw-based Bank Pekao
SA , in 2000, and in 2003 was put in charge of the joint-venture
that controls Turkey’s biggest bank,  Yapi Kredi SA .  Lower Profile  During his tenure overseeing UniCredit’s Bank Austria AG
unit, Ghizzoni managed the reorganization of the businesses in
Ukraine, including JSCB Ukrsotsbank, and integrated Kazakhstan’s
ATF Bank. UniCredit posted a 162 million-euro ($221 million)
goodwill writedown related to its unit in Kazakhstan in the
second quarter, when the bank’s profit fell 70 percent to 148
million euros. In Ukraine, he restored the businesses to profit,
including in 2009, when the economy contracted 15 percent.  Married with two children, Ghizzoni is a graduate of Parma
University, where he earned a law degree. Like Profumo, he is a
fan of the Inter Milan soccer team and he joined his former boss
in Madrid to watch the May 22 Champions League final won by the
Italian club.  “He seems to be a solid manager, but I don’t think he has
Profumo’s high profile,” said  Fabrizio Spagna , the CEO of Axia
Financial Research in Padua, Italy. “It’s hard to think of
someone who does.”  ‘High Profile’  Profumo, 53, became one of Italy’s most prominent bankers
by seizing on the opening of European markets brought by the
introduction of the euro to expand at home and abroad. He turned
the regional bank Credito Italiano SpA he took over in 1997 into
UniCredit, the sixth-biggest bank in the euro region with 954.6
billion euros of  assets  at the end of June.  Profumo’s expansion built UniCredit into Italy’s most
European bank, with more than half its revenue generated outside
the country.  Takeovers left UniCredit short of funds when confidence in
banks collapsed in 2008 and credit became scarce, forcing
Profumo to turn to investors for cash twice in 18 months. The
tension with the banking foundations increased after one of two
Libyan investors raised its holdings, ultimately forcing Profumo
to quit at a Sept. 21 board meeting.  Ghizzoni’s appointment may calm foundations. “His constant
and close interaction with policy makers, regulators, internal
organizations and market participants makes him ideally suited
for managing UniCredit’s relations with all key shareholders,”
Chairman  Dieter Rampl , 63, said in the statement. He directed
the CEO search.  Philanthropic Foundations  UniCredit fell 1.1 percent to 1.85 euros at 4:10 p.m. in
Milan, giving the company a market value of 36 billion euros. 
The Bloomberg Banks and Financial Services Index , which was down
0.1 percent today, has dropped 7 percent in the past six months,
compared with UniCredit’s 17 percent decline.  The new CEO is a “compromise solution,” said  Edoardo Liuni , an analyst at IlNuovoMercato.it in Rome. “His years of
experience managing local branches matches the foundations’
needs, while his focus on eastern Europe and Austria makes him a
good point of contact for the non-Italian constituency.”  Italy’s banking foundations, regional institutions that
oversee 49 billion euros of assets, use money generated by their
holdings in lenders to fund philanthropic programs at schools
and museums. They were formed two decades ago when the
charitable arms of Italy’s savings banks were split from lending
operations to allow for the industry’s privatization.  Some investors said Profumo should have informed them about
the Libyans intentions, while the Northern League, a regional
party that is part of  Silvio Berlusconi ’s ruling coalition,
expressed concern that UniCredit might fall into foreign hands.  Italian stock market regulator Consob and the Bank of Italy
asked UniCredit to prove that the two investors are independent
entities after the  Libya Investment Authority , a sovereign
wealth fund, bought a 2.1 percent stake in the lender in July.
It has since increased the holding to 2.6 percent.  The Libyan fund and the  Central Bank of Libya , which owns a
5 percent stake, would violate UniCredit’s statute if they were
determined to be a sole entity because the bank restricts voting
rights to 5 percent.  The board, answering a Bank of Italy request said yesterday
it’s unable to determine yet if the two investors are autonomous
entities, adding that it’s still reviewing the matter and needs
more information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 sirletti@bloomberg.net 
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  