-- UniCredit Names Ghizzoni as CEO After Profumo Exit
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i ,   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2010-09-30T18:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/unicredit-names-deputy-chief-ghizzoni-as-ceo-after-profumo-exit.html
UniCredit SpA , Italy’s biggest
bank, named Deputy Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  as
CEO nine days after his predecessor  Alessandro Profumo  quit
under pressure from investors.  The 54-year-old Ghizzoni, who runs the Milan-based bank’s
central and eastern Europe division, was the unanimous choice of
the directors, Chairman  Dieter Rampl  said in a statement
following a board meeting in Warsaw today.  With Ghizzoni’s appointment UniCredit is seeking to end the
infighting that led to the departure of Profumo, who clashed
with the Italian banking foundations that own 11 percent of the
company. Ghizzoni, a 30-year veteran of the bank, began as a
customer relations manager at a branch in his home city of
Piacenza, in northern Italy, and went on to run foreign
operations from London to Istanbul.  “It’s a good choice, a compromise solution that puts
together the banking foundations and the non-Italian side of the
bank,” said  Edoardo Liuni , an analyst at IlNuovoMercato.it in
Rome. “His years of experience managing local branches matches
the foundations’ needs, while his focus on eastern Europe and
Austria makes him a good point of contact for the non-Italian
constituency.”  ‘Profumo Boys’  Ghizzoni became a deputy CEO in August, and beat out 45-
year-old  Roberto Nicastro , another deputy CEO, for the top job.
The bank said it plans to study the best “leadership model for
the group and a proper allocation of functions,” adding to
speculation it will appoint a general manager to bring its
governance into line with Italy’s second- and third-largest
banks.  The company will hold to its strategy, Ghizzoni told
reporters in Warsaw. “UniCredit is an international group with
a local presence and we intend to grow organically in Europe,”
he said.  Ghizzoni and the three other deputy CEOs have been dubbed
“Profumo boys” by the Italian media because the former chief
executive promoted all four through the ranks.  In the 1990s, Ghizzoni served as deputy general manager of
the London office and later ran the Singapore office. He was
chosen to head UniCredit’s Polish unit,  Warsaw-based Bank Pekao
SA , in 2000, and in 2003 was put in charge of the joint-venture
that controls Turkey’s biggest bank,  Yapi Kredi SA .  Not ‘High Profile’  Married with two children and a collector of fountain pens,
Ghizzoni is a graduate of Parma University, where he earned a
law degree. Like Profumo, he is a fan of the Inter Milan soccer
team and he joined his former boss in Madrid to watch the May 22
Champions League final won by the Italian club.  “He seems to be a solid manager, but I don’t think he has
Profumo’s high profile,” said  Fabrizio Spagna , the CEO of Axia
Financial Research in Padua, Italy. “It’s hard to think of
someone who does.”  Profumo, 53, became one of Italy’s most prominent bankers
by seizing on the opening of European markets brought by the
introduction of the euro to expand at home and abroad. He turned
the regional bank Credito Italiano SpA he took over in 1997 into
UniCredit, the sixth-biggest bank in the euro region with 954.6
billion euros ($1.3 trillion) of  assets  at the end of June.  Profumo’s expansion through more than $65 billion of
purchases built UniCredit into Italy’s most European bank, with
more than half its revenue generated  outside  the country.  Philanthropic Foundations  Takeovers left UniCredit short of funds when confidence in
banks collapsed in 2008 and credit became scarce, forcing
Profumo to turn to investors for cash twice in 18 months. The
tension with the banking foundations increased after one of the
two Libyan investors raised its holdings, ultimately forcing
Profumo to quit at a Sept. 21 board meeting.  Ghizzoni’s appointment may calm foundations. “His constant
and close interaction with policymakers, regulators, internal
organizations and market participants makes him ideally suited
for managing UniCredit’s relations with all key shareholders,”
said Rampl, 63, in the statement. He directed the CEO search.  Italy’s banking foundations, regional institutions that
oversee 49 billion euros of assets, use money generated by their
holdings in lenders to fund philanthropic programs at schools
and museums. They were formed two decades ago when the
charitable arms of Italy’s savings banks were split from lending
operations to allow for the industry’s privatization.  Some investors said Profumo should have informed them about
the Libyans intentions, while the Northern League, a regional
party that is part of  Silvio Berlusconi ’s ruling coalition,
expressed concern that UniCredit might fall into foreign hands.  Libyan Investors  The board, in response to a Bank of Italy request, said
it’s unable to determine if the two Libyan investors are
autonomous entities. The board is still reviewing the matter and
needs more information, it said today.  Italian stock market regulator Consob and the Bank of Italy
asked UniCredit to prove that the two investors are independent
entities after the  Libyan Investment Authority , a sovereign
wealth fund, bought a 2.1 percent stake in the lender in July.  The Libyan fund and the  Central Bank of Libya , which owns a
5 percent stake, would violate UniCredit’s statute if they were
determined to be a sole entity because the bank restricts voting
rights to 5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Sonia Sirletti  in Milan at 
 sirletti@bloomberg.net 
 Elisa Martinuzzi  in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  