-- Unshackled Saxony Rises to Become East Germany's Brightest Star
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2010-09-30T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/unshackled-saxony-rises-to-become-east-germany-s-brightest-star.html
Two decades ago, Saxony was as beaten
down as the rest of East Germany. In Dresden, its capital, fire-
bombed Baroque palaces and museums had been partially rebuilt,
but raw sewage still poured into the Elbe River. Telephones were
rare. Young people longed to move West to escape shortages and
censorship.  There was some manufacturing: Saxons made East Germany’s
flimsy Trabant, but the sedan was so unloved, people joked that
it doubled in value when filled with gasoline.  Today, Saxony is one of the brightest stars in the East.
Saxons build BMW cars, Porsches, and Volkswagens, chips, and
watches from  A. Lange & Soehne  that cost up to $500,000 apiece,
reports Bloomberg Businessweek in its Oct. 4 issue. Gross
domestic product has grown 11.2 percent since 2000, a higher
rate than any of Germany’s other 15 federal states, according to
data from the state’s  Economy Ministry .  Saxony’s dramatic gains owe much to pro-business government
policies that unleashed the famous Saxon work ethic,
inventiveness, and attention to detail. “Our companies have
been very good at carving out niches and customizing products,”
says Saxon Economy Minister Sven Morlok.  Two key figures in the transformation were  Kurt Biedenkopf ,
now 80, the Christian Democrat who served as premier from 1990
to 2002, and the late  Kajo Schommer , who served as economy
minister during the same formative period. Together they
developed a “lighthouse principle” in which industries with
high potential -- especially autos and microelectronics -- got
most of the state aid.  ‘Nation-Building’  “The state’s political and business leaders boosted the
self-confidence of the Saxon people and convinced them their
fate was in their own hands,” says  Joachim Ragnitz , managing
director of the Ifo Institute for Economic Research in Dresden.
“It was like nation-building, and it worked. They got people to
believe that they really had to be best at whatever they were
doing.”  The Saxon government threw its support behind  Volkswagen
AG , the first big West German company to make a major investment
in the region. In 1990, the company decided to produce the VW
Polo compact car in Zwickau and since then has built some
3 million cars and 8 million motors at factories in the state.  Saxony had three things going for it at the time:
Volkswagen’s chief executive officer,  Carl Hahn , was a Saxon
native. It had carmaking experience, in spite of the Trabant.
And VW got big subsidies, half from the federal government and
half from the state. VW’s investment attracted parts suppliers
and ultimately other automakers to the state.  Breakthrough  The other breakthrough investment, in 1995, was by German
manufacturing giant  Siemens AG , which was also drawn to Saxony’s
pro-business climate and skilled workforce -- a legacy of the
communist-era, Saxony-based computer-maker VEB Kombinat
Robotron.  As with VW, Siemens opened the floodgates to other
investments in the sector. In the late 1990s,  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc.  began building computer chip factories in Dresden.
The Dresden manufacturing campus, now owned by an AMD-Abu Dhabi
joint venture called Globalfoundries Inc., is the largest chip-
making center in Europe and one of the most advanced in the
world.  “AMD was set to go to Ireland, and that investment was
diverted to Saxony because of Prime Minister Biedenkopf and his
team,” says  Jens Drews , Globalfoundries’ director of government
relations. “They were visionaries.”  Demonstrations  With 4.2 million people, Saxony sits in an eastern nook of
Germany, with the Czech Republic to the south and Poland to the
east. Twenty years after reunification, about 6,000 companies
have invested 27 billion euros ($37 billion) in the state, which
is smaller than New Jersey.  East Germany’s anti-communist mass protests had their
genesis in the Saxon city of Leipzig in 1989, paving the way for
demonstrations that swept the hard-line state before it imploded
that year. As a result, Saxon voters have not elected any former
East German communist to power as part of any coalition
government.  The local government has taken market-friendly steps that
would be unthinkable in other parts of Germany. In 2006, for
example, Dresden’s municipal government sold 48,000 apartments
to U.S. buyout firm Fortress Investment Group LLC for
1.75 billion euros.  This was a year after  Franz Muentefering , then leader of
the Social Democratic Party, compared such investors to the
biblical plague of locusts that descended on Egypt.  Debt-Free Dresden  Dresden, which was the first German city to sell all the
housing it owned, used the proceeds to pay back debt of more
than 700 million euros, and it remains debt-free. “The Saxons
have been clever business people for centuries,” says  Carl Graf von Hohenthal , a management adviser at the Brunswick Group in
Berlin and former deputy editor-in-chief of Die Welt.  “The typical Saxon is constantly thinking about how he can
do business. When you drive across the border from Brandenburg
into Saxony, you immediately see the difference. The villages
are cleaner and more prosperous, the church towers bigger and
higher.”  Porsche’s plant is a symbol of the new Saxony, employing
640 people on the site of a former Soviet military training
base. It churns out 250 Cayennes and 100 Panameras a day. The
meticulous attention to detail that makes Saxons good at
building Porsches is also an asset for producing luxury products
such as watches and fine wine.  Luxury Watchmaker  A. Lange & Soehne, the watchmaker established in 1845 in
the village of Glashuette near the Czech border, was
expropriated by the communists in 1945 and reestablished in
December 1990 by Walter Lange, a direct descendant of the
founder. Jerzy Schaper, Lange’s CEO, says watches made from gold
and platinum -- which range in price from 13,000 euros to
390,000 euros -- are selling especially well in Asia. Georg
Prince zur Lippe, another Saxon who returned after unification,
bought back his aristocratic family’s manor house and vineyards
in Meissen, Weingut Schloss Proschwitz, that had been seized by
the communists. The wines are now served on Deutsche Lufthansa
AG flights.  Despite its progress, the state did experience its own
version of the financial crisis, when state-owned Landesbank
Sachsen, now known as Sachsen Bank, became a casualty of the
U.S. housing meltdown in 2007 and lost 641.6 million euros.  The Saxony Prime Minister at the time,  Georg Milbradt ,
resigned in 2008 after the bank’s near failure, saying he wanted
“to prevent further damage both to myself and to others.”  Far-Right  There are also concerns that aging and depopulation of
rural areas could lead to worker shortages, and automobile
thefts have skyrocketed. Dresden has also been the scene of the
largest neo-Nazi marches in Germany since the 1960s. Eight
members of the far-right National Democratic Party of Germany
won seats in the 2009 election to the state’s 132-member
assembly.  Despite these challenges, though, Saxony is a success
story, especially when compared to where things stood in 1990.
“The Saxons are really hardworking,” says Christian Schwinner-
Strachwitz, 67, who returned to Saxony after reunification.
“They never need a kick in the butt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  