-- Murdoch Says Immigration Overhaul Would Help Economy
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2010-09-30T16:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/murdoch-says-immigration-overhaul-would-help-economy.html
News Corp.  Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
urged U.S. lawmakers to get behind an overhaul of immigration
law that includes a way for undocumented workers to get legal
status, saying such a plan would help the economy.  “America is desperately in need of improving our country’s
human capital,” Murdoch told a House Judiciary subcommittee
today in Washington. “We want to bring an end to the arbitrary
immigration and visa quotas that make it impossible to fill the
labor and skill needs of our country.”  Murdoch was joined by New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , one
of his partners in an effort by business and public officials to
build momentum for the first broad rewrite of immigration laws
since 1986. Democrats in Congress abandoned efforts to enact an
overhaul this year, determining they couldn’t get enough support
to overcome delaying tactics by Senate Republican opponents.  Murdoch and other advocates of a revamped immigration law
ran into opposition from Republicans on the House panel.
Representative  Lamar Smith  of Texas, the top Republican on the
panel, said the U.S. should secure its borders first. He said he
worried that allowing more immigrants would harm lower-skilled
workers in the U.S.  “Why would we want to put the interests of foreign workers
ahead of the economic interests” of Americans, Smith said.  U.S.-Mexico Border  President  Barack Obama  is seeking an immigration plan what
would include added security at the U.S.-Mexico border to stem
the flow of illegal immigrants and a path for some of the 11
million undocumented workers already in the U.S. to gain
permanent legal residency. He also wants to see changes in
policies that allow workers to enter the country legally to work
for U.S. businesses.  Senate Democratic leaders in April outlined such a measure
that emphasized the drive to secure the border, in an
unsuccessful effort to get Republican support. Democrats have 59
votes in the Senate, one shy of the number needed to overcome
Republican opposition.  Bloomberg said today the debate has become too bitter, and
he urged lawmakers in both parties to work on a bipartisan
solution that embraces the benefits of legal newcomers to the
U.S. He and Murdoch have created a Partnership for a New
American Economy to push for changes.  Bloomberg said U.S. cities like New York that have had the
largest increase in immigrant workers in recent decades have
also seen the fastest economic growth. Research shows that
immigrants pay more in taxes than they use in benefits, and are
twice as likely as native-born Americans to start new companies,
he said.  ‘Economy Has Changed’  “To keep America competitive in the global marketplace, we
must recognize that our economy has changed,” Bloomberg said.
“Our immigration policy needs to change with it.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
the parent of Bloomberg News.  Lawmakers are leaving Washington today to campaign for
elections that may put Republicans in charge of one or both of
the congressional chambers, which would let the party reshape
the immigration debate that Obama plans to make a top priority
in 2011.  Most Republicans on the panel said boosting legal
immigration would hurt American workers, and none at the hearing
embraced a comprehensive approach to addressing the immigration
issue.  House Democrats generally have supported Obama’s push.
Representative  Anthony Weiner , a New York Democrat, said a
“broad swath” of Americans support such a plan. He urged
lawmakers on the panel to “leave demagoguery at the door.”  Fox News Channel  Representative  Maxine Waters , a California Democrat,
questioned how Murdoch could support a pathway to legal status
for undocumented immigrants while his company’s Fox News Channel
highlights the views of commentators who she said advocate a
get-tough approach to illegal immigrants.  “I don’t see you promoting in any way with all the power
you have to do that,” Waters said.  Murdoch said “we do” reflect his personal views,
including in the Wall Street Journal, which his company also
owns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Laura Litvan  in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  