-- Turks in Germany Bridge Two Worlds as Anti-Immigrant Voices Spark Debate
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2010-09-30T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/turks-in-germany-bridge-two-worlds-as-anti-immigrant-voices-spark-debate.html
When Avni Yerli and his two brothers
started a computer-game company called  Crytek  in their Bavarian
hometown of Coburg in 1999, it never occurred to them that their
Turkish immigrant roots could hold them back. Germany was a
digital “backwater,” Yerli says, so they set their sights on
international success.  The brothers were well educated. Avni had been working as a
building engineer; his brothers had business degrees. The family
had put some money aside from when their father, Mustafa, worked
in a furniture factory. So when venture capitalists refused to
back them -- not because of their ethnicity, Yerli says, but
because German VCs “didn’t understand what we wanted to do” --
the brothers and various family members came up with 100,000
euros ($136,020), Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Oct. 4
issue.  They used it to develop and market technology, called
CryENGINE, which powered their first video game, published by
UbiSoft Entertainment. By 2006, they had moved into a converted
red-brick factory in Frankfurt and had built the privately held
company into Germany’s largest video-game maker.  The brothers don’t think of their company as Turkish or
German. “We wanted to create an international corporate culture
right from the start,” says Yerli, 40, who now helps manage 650
Crytek employees at studios in six countries including Britain
and South Korea. The company’s lingua franca is English. “The
German element, if you will, is to do good planning, analyze
sharply, and focus on quality.”  Largest Ethnic Minority  With an estimated 3 million residents of Turkish descent
and a shrinking, aging population, Germany has reason to
capitalize on its largest ethnic minority. Instead, it has spent
the summer indulging in an angry debate about whether poorly
educated Muslim immigrants are making Germany “dumber” and
singling out the Turkish minority as most resistant to
assimilation. Those incendiary assertions were made in Germany
Is Wiping Itself Out, a best-selling book by Thilo Sarrazin, a
former Bundesbank board member and previously Berlin city
treasurer. The book’s August publication drew criticism from
mainstream politicians, yet in a Sept. 8 Forsa poll, 61 percent
of respondents said they agreed partly with his arguments, while
9 percent said they agreed fully. Just 22 percent said his
comments were unacceptable.  Vote With Feet  Concurrently, a 40-year immigration trend is now reversing
itself: Some 40,000 people left Germany for Turkey in 2009,
while only 30,000 emigrated from Turkey to Germany, according to
the  Federal Statistics Bureau . Second-generation Turks who leave
Germany tend to be well educated and can afford to vote with
their feet. Yerli says he was “surprised and disappointed” by
the Sarrazin episode. “I would have expected a bit more depth
to the debate,” he says. “Germany really can’t afford this. I
would have thought that Germany has left that kind of thing
behind.”  “Even so,” he adds, “I’m not thinking of emigrating.”  The first wave of Turks in Germany -- unskilled, poorly
educated Gast-arbeiter, or “guest workers,” recruited in the
1960s to fuel West Germany’s post-World War II boom -- could
scarcely have dreamed of Yerli’s lofty attitude or his success.  Today, Germans of Turkish descent are making it to the top
in politics, the arts, sports, and academia. When soccer player
Mesut Ozil scored for Germany at the 2010 World Cup in South
Africa, fans back home didn’t care where his parents were from.
Cem Ozdemir, whose Turkish-born mother once worked as a
seamstress in southern Germany, became the nation’s first
federal lawmaker from an immigrant family in 1994 and now heads
the opposition Green Party, which is polling at a record high.  Underclass  Turkish-Germans run some 80,000 businesses that employ, on
average, five people. Still, they’re only about half as likely
as Germans to start companies, according to the Turkish
Community in Germany, an advocacy group.  Driving anti-immigrant sentiment is a large, unassimilated
Turkish underclass living a ghettoized life in urban centers
such as Berlin, Hamburg, and Bremen. Like alienated Muslim
communities in Britain, France, and Scandinavia, the Turks live
in parallel societies--urban areas where Turkish grocers,
Turkish satellite television, and Turkish newspapers ease self-
isolation. Between 10 percent and 15 percent of the immigrant
population is “unwilling” to be part of German society, says
Interior Minister  Thomas de Maiziere , whose department is
responsible for immigration affairs.  Immigrant Turks still lag in education, pay, and
employment, often falling behind other groups among the 15
million first- and second-generation immigrant residents who
make up 19 percent of Germany’s population.  Discrimination  The Turkish community has the lowest share of high school
graduates (14 percent) and an unemployment rate of 23 percent,
according to a 2009 study by the Berlin Institute for Population
and Development. That compares with a 7.5 percent jobless rate
for Germany in September. Turks and their children are twice as
likely as Germans to wind up on welfare, and in Berlin they top
the police tally of gang criminals.  “Yes, there is discrimination” against non-German job
seekers, says Nihat Sorgec, head of a vocational school in
Berlin’s heavily immigrant Kreuzberg neighborhood. “But whining
and feeling victimized is not the best way to fight this. You
need to move on and say, ‘These are my qualifications, I can do
this job better than others.’ ”  His wish is to see “a Turkish manager” among the top 30
German corporations in the  DAX  stock index within 10 years. “We
haven’t gotten there yet,” says Sorgec, who received the German
government’s Federal Cross of Merit for his educational efforts.
“The reason is the people who were originally recruited to
Germany. They didn’t bring in managers. They didn’t bring in
academics. They brought in ‘guest workers,’ who were supposed to
do the dirty work.”  Unlocking Potential  Unlocking the potential among immigrants in the world’s
fourth-largest economy may be critical to securing German
prosperity. Chancellor  Angela Merkel  agrees. Germany should
“put the job potential of migrants to better use,” she wrote
in a Sept. 20 op-ed piece in Die Welt. “We can’t waste any
talent.” Asked what non-Germans need to do to get ahead,
politicians from Merkel on down reply: Learn German. “Whoever
lives among us also has to be ready to integrate into society,
learn the language, participate in school,” Merkel said in
August. “There’s a lot to do in that respect.”  Turkish community leaders say Germans need to be more
welcoming. Only a decade ago politicians were still debating
whether Germany was an “immigration country” at all.  European Union  In 2000, after the Social Democratic government of Gerhard
Schroeder changed the country’s citizenship law to reflect
growing diversity, a leader of Merkel’s Christian Democrats
called for a “guiding culture” of Germanness. Another
complicating factor is Europe’s relationship with Turkey, a
secular Muslim country that faces German and French objections
to its bid to join the European Union.  During a 2008 visit to Germany, Turkish Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip  Erdogan told a Turkish audience, “Nobody can
expect you to submit to assimilation. Assimilation is a crime
against humanity.”  Belgin Kaplan, 26, a Muslim, sees no problem straddling the
two cultures in Berlin. An employee in her father’s doener-kebab
plant in a gritty western part of the city, which produces a
ubiquitous gyro-like meat on a spit that rivals wurst as
Germany’s dominant fast food, she grew up in the capital, speaks
German with a native accent, speaks Turkish at work and with her
family, and holds a Turkish passport.  “Our life is totally multicultural,” says Kaplan, wearing
ripped jeans that prompt some ribbing from her father. “We do
business here and we live here. I feel accepted as a Turk. The
business world is gradually adapting to Turks.”  Her father, Remzi Kaplan, says he has built the family
enterprise into one of Europe’s three biggest doener producers
after a classic trajectory that began with selling produce in
divided 1970s Berlin. “My dad started with a tabletop, two
trestles, and a scale,” Kaplan, 50, says in an interview during
which he serves Turkish tea and sweets. “When we go to Turkey
now, my three children say, ‘When are we going back home?’ They
mean Germany.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tony Czuczka  in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  