-- Luzhkov Ouster Weakens Billionaire Wife's Grip on Moscow Market
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2010-09-30T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/luzhkov-s-firing-weakens-billionaire-wife-s-grip-on-moscow-property-market.html
The firing of Moscow Mayor  Yury Luzhkov  will create new opportunities for real estate developers
in the capital as Luzkhov’s wife, billionaire  Yelena Baturina ,
and other established builders lose influence at city hall.  ZAO Inteco, Baturina’s closely held firm, and companies
such as  PIK Group  may have projects frozen while a new
administration takes over, said Dmitry Khalin, head of strategic
consulting at real estate agency IntermarkSavills in Moscow.
PIK’s London-listed shares have fallen 6 percent since Luzhkov
was ousted Sept. 28, their biggest three-day drop in six weeks.  “The faces at the table may change, but I’m not convinced
the rules will,” said  James Beadle , a U.K.-based consultant for
investors in Russia. “Luzhkov has been very good at protecting
his own people. Will the person who replaces him be more open or
still inclined to protect insiders? That’s an open question.”  Moscow, which has $30 billion in annual housing sales and
the second-highest prime office rents in Europe, is recovering
from last year’s property crash, with home prices  up 18 percent 
from their September 2009 lows. President  Dmitry Medvedev  fired
Luzhkov after state TV accused him of corruption and favoritism
toward his wife. Luzhkov, 73, denies the accusations.  PIK has “substantial exposure” to Moscow real estate,
including plots of land scheduled for development, and “may be
affected by the uncertainty over the future regulation of the
market,” said  Andrey Kuznetsov , a strategist at Troika Dialog
in Moscow.  Dmitry Ivliev, a spokesman for Moscow-based PIK, declined
to comment.  Federal Ties  Companies that may benefit include St. Petersburg-based  LSR
Group , said  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Capital in
Moscow. London-traded Sistema-Hals and Don-Stroi’s residential
property unit, both controlled by state-run  VTB Group , are also
well-placed, according to real estate analysts.  “You have to look at which companies are close to the
federal government; they will get the privileges,” said Sergei
Zharkov, an analyst from Moscow-based property research group,
IRN. A new mayor “will have a big effect, especially on the use
of influence and the opportunities this grants market players.”  LSR, controlled by Andrey Molchanov, son of St. Petersburg
Vice-Governor  Yuri Molchanov , a former colleague of Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s at Leningrad State University, has
risen 13 percent to $8.50 since Sept. 28 in London.  Sistema-Hals 
gained 1.2 percent to 819 rubles yesterday in Moscow trading.  Yulia Sokolova, a spokeswoman for LSR, said the Russian
capital, which today accounts for 3.5 percent of LSR’s property
holdings, is a focus for the future.  Building Relationships  “With a new mayor comes the prospect of new people in
senior positions,” Weafer said. “That offers newcomers, such
as LSR Group, a better opportunity to get approvals, etc., and
form relationships that can help smooth their business growth.”  Baturina earned more than $1 billion last year, according
Luzhkov’s 2009 financial disclosure filed in May. She owns
property including a 445 square-meter (4,800 square-foot)
apartment in Russia and a 321 square-meter house in Austria.  Forbes magazine  ranks Baturina , 47, as the world’s third-
richest woman, with a fortune of $2.9 billion.  Boris Nemtsov , a former deputy prime minister and
opposition politician, published a  report  last year in which he
suggested Inteco received favorable treatment in acquiring land
from city hall, as well as securing building permits and
exemptions from paying for connection to municipal utilities.  Inteco and Baturina sued Nemtsov for defamation. A Moscow
appeals court on July 19 rejected complaints related to
assertions that Inteco got preferential treatment in real estate
development, while ordering Nemtsov to retract other comments.
Both sides have appealed.  Permitting Power  Baturina has denied getting special treatment from the
city. Luzhkov said Sept. 13 that he had never given a preference
to Inteco and that Baturina would be “even richer” if she
hadn’t been his wife.  “As long as I don’t break the law, I have the right to do
what I do,” Baturina said in a Sept. 20 interview in The New
Times, a Moscow-based magazine. “I have no idea what
preferential treatment I’m supposedly getting.”  Billionaire  Alexander Lebedev , a Luzhkov critic, said the
couple’s main asset was the power “to permit or deny
permission” for projects in Moscow.  “The end will come for the business activities of the
Baturina clan,” Lebedev said Sept. 15.  VEB , Russia’s development bank, isn’t in a position to
proceed with a $2.5 billion project to build housing in the
regions with Inteco, Chairman  Vladimir Dmitriev  said Sept. 29,
according to state-run news service RIA Novosti.  ‘New Opportunities’  Inteco  spokesman Gennady Terebkov requested e-mailed
questions when asked for comment for this article, then didn’t
respond.  Acting Mayor  Vladimir Resin , who oversaw city construction
projects as Luzhkov’s deputy, declined to comment when asked at
a Sept. 29 news conference whether policy would change.  Luzhkov’s administration wasn’t “accommodating” for
business in the way he managed the construction market, said
Evgeny Nadorshin, head of economic and strategic research at
real estate broker Jones Lang LaSalle in Moscow.  His departure may “provide new opportunities, not only for
existing companies, but newcomers, although private investors
will have to compete with state-connected interests to be the
first to grab these opportunities,” Nadorshin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 