-- Waddell & Reed Trades Said to Help Spur May 6 Crash
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2010-10-01T14:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/waddell-reed-e-mini-trades-are-said-to-have-helped-trigger-may-6-crash.html
A mutual fund’s routine effort to
hedge against losses helped set off a chain of events that
turned an orderly selloff on May 6 into a crash that erased $862
billion in U.S. equity value in less than 20 minutes, according
to two people with direct knowledge of regulators’ findings.  Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. sold  CME Group Inc .’s E-mini
futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, spooking traders
nervous because of the European debt crisis, the Securities and
Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission
have concluded, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because the findings haven’t been released. Their
report on the crash, which briefly sent the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  down 998.50 points, may be released as early as today.  “Every day, markets are capable of handling large
trades,” said Lawrence Harris, a finance professor at the
University of  Southern California  in  Los Angeles  and a former
chief economist at the SEC. Any large transaction on May 6 could
“have been the unfortunate trade that broke the camel’s back.”  Regulators are facing pressure from investors to explain
whether trading rules have failed to keep pace with markets that
now handle order executions in millionths of a second. SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  is trying to protect investors in a
fragmented U.S. stock market while maintaining liquidity -- the
ease with which investors can buy and sell shares -- on venues
dominated by firms that profit from computerized trading.  Differing Rules  A joint SEC-CFTC report on May 18 said the crash may have
been exacerbated by trading rules that differed from venue to
venue. In June, exchanges implemented circuit breakers that
pause trading in more than 1,300 securities during periods of
volatility to prevent selling from snowballing. They have also
adopted uniform policies for canceling trades and are
eliminating stub quotes, or bids and offers to execute at prices
far away from the stock’s last sale.  Lawmakers such as Sen. Ted Kaufman, a Democrat from  Delaware , have asked if the high-frequency firms that have
supplanted specialists and market makers with strategies that
transact thousands of shares a second destabilized trading by
withdrawing their liquidity when they were needed most.  Schapiro said earlier this month that regulators should
examine increased obligations for market makers providing orders
to buy and sell stocks. The SEC and CFTC found in their initial
report about May 6 that electronic trading firms supplying bids
and offers reined in their activity, increasing the “mismatch
of liquidity” and potentially exacerbating the decline.  Liquidity Replenishment  Regulators said in that May 18 report they were examining
the protocols that dictate how exchanges route orders between
one another and curbs called liquidity replenishment points on
the New York Stock Exchange. The latter mechanisms, which
operate only on NYSE, slow down trading so market makers can
oversee quick auctions that aggregate buy and sell demand.  While the NYSE Euronext-owned exchange said the safeguards
prevented it from canceling orders on May 6, executives at New
York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc . and Bats Global Markets in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , have said they caused the marketplace to
become less coordinated in a time of stress. Exchanges canceled
almost 20,800 trades on May 6 that were at least 60 percent away
from the market price when the plunge began.  The SEC and CFTC said in the May 18 report that they were
also exploring possible linkages between price declines in
equity index futures, exchange-traded funds and individual
securities and the “extent to which activity in one market may
have led the others.” Equity markets continued to slide after
futures began improving, with stocks such as Accenture and
Exelon Corp. trading at pennies when they executed against stub
quotes intended to meet a regulatory obligation.  ‘Didn’t Behave Robustly’  “Linkages between stock markets didn’t behave robustly
that day,” Mike Bleich, chief executive officer of Scout
Trading LLC, a market-making firm in New York, said yesterday.
He was previously head of liquidity strategy at Barclays Plc in  New York , where he also ran an electronic market-making group.
“If the linkages were better, the result might not have been as
severe,” he said.  Waddell & Reed will not be identified by name in the SEC
and CFTC report, according to two people familiar with the
matter. The document also won’t make any policy recommendations,
they said. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.  Many Traders  “I’m not sure it’s appropriate to comment on a report that
doesn’t name us specifically, but it’s clear we were one of many
traders that day,” said Roger Hoadley, director of
communications at  Overland Park , Kansas-based Waddell & Reed.
“We were merely trying to manage downside risk in our
portfolios.”  Waddell & Reed Chief Investment Officer Michael Avery said
in a conference call on July 28 that the asset manager’s
“ability to use hedging as an effective defensive strategy is
constrained by either what appear to be increasingly fragile
markets and/or liquidity constraints place on us by the
exchanges.” He added: “But so far that has not been an
issue.”  About 250 trading firms processed transactions in E-mini
S&P 500 futures from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. New York time on May 6,
regulators said in their May 18 report on the rout. One of the
largest firms selling the E-mini contract accounted for about 9
percent of volume from 2:32 p.m. until 2:51 p.m., they said. The
firm, which wasn’t named, sold the contract short to hedge other
positions and “only entered orders to sell,” according to the
May 18 report.  Kept Selling  “The trader sold on the way down and continued to do so
even as the price level recovered,” the report said four months
ago. “This trader and others have executed hedging strategies
of similar size previously.”  E-mini S&P 500 futures are the largest contract by volume
traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, owned by CME Group.
Chief Executive Officer Craig Donohue said on June 22 that
volume in the June E-mini S&P 500 futures on May 6 was 5.7
million contracts, with about 1.6 million, or 28 percent,
trading from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. New York time. At about 2:45:28
p.m. the contracts declined 12.75 points in half a second when
1,100 were sold by multiple traders, he said.  “Considerable selling pressure at this vulnerable period
in time may have contributed to declining prices in the E-mini
S&P 500 -- and other equivalent products” such as the SPDR S&P
500 ETF Trust, an exchange-traded fund tracking the benchmark
measure of U.S. stocks, the May 18 report said.  “All of these markets are closely linked by a complex web
of traders and trading strategies,” regulators wrote four
months ago. “The precipitous decline in price in one market on
May 6 may have influenced a sustained series of selling in other
financial markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  Washington  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 