-- Wal-Mart's Africa Ambitions May Spark S. African Takeover Spree
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2010-09-30T11:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/wal-mart-s-expansion-into-africa-may-start-a-south-african-takeover-spree.html
Bidvest Group Ltd.  and  Northam
Platinum Ltd.  are among at least 10 South African companies that
could be acquisition targets for foreign bidders seeking growth
opportunities in the wake of $15 billion worth of deals
announced since July by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ,  HSBC Holdings Plc 
and  Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp.   “Wal-Mart’s offer is going to spark other interest,”
 David Shapiro , head of  Sasfin Holdings Ltd.’s  securities unit,
said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg. “Any deal is
possible.”  In the race for Africa, companies from the U.S., China,
Japan and the U.K. are scrambling to buy the continent’s best
assets, tapping into its growth potential and its 1 billion
people in a world where returns from developed nations are
faltering. Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, wants to buy
South Africa’s  Massmart Holdings Ltd.  for about $4.6 billion,
while HSBC is in talks to buy a controlling stake  Nedbank Group
Ltd.  and Japan’s NTT is buying Africa’s biggest technology
company,  Dimension Data Plc .  Shapiro’s South African company takeover-shopping list also
includes  Barloworld Ltd. , the world’s largest fork-lift dealer;
AECI Ltd., a chemicals company;  Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. ,
the southern hemisphere biggest generics drug-maker; Tiger
Brands Ltd., a food distributor, and  Blue Label Telecoms Ltd. ,
reports Bloomberg BusinessWeek in its Oct. 4 issue.  Retailers on Radar  Retailers  Shoprite Holdings Ltd.  and  Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. 
could lure bids from  Carrefour SA  or  Tesco Plc ,  Stephen Carrott ,
a Johannesburg-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a
note. Shoprite, which has 124 supermarkets outside South Africa
and plans to add another 20 in Nigeria over the next two years,
is an “excellent” potential acquisition, he said.  “Bidvest is a prime target for African growth,” said
 Wayne McCurrie , who helps manage more than $17 billion at RMB
Asset Management in Johannesburg. Bidvest, which makes 57
percent of its revenue from southern Africa, owns businesses
from auto dealerships to financial services.  It’s a “great company with great assets,” said  Simon Hudson-Peacock , head of specialist equities at Cape Town-based
 Cadiz Asset Management . Bidvest’s international food and
catering assets could catch the attention of an acquirer like
 Sysco Corp , he said.  A Chinese company could bid for Northam to secure platinum
supplies, Sasfin’s Shapiro said. “Its Booysendal mine is coming
online soon and it could be a super asset,” he said, adding
China may also buy coal mines in South Africa.  Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp. , a Kazakh metal producer, already owns 12
percent of the company.  ‘Exposed to Africa’  Lonmin Plc , in which  Xstrata Plc  already owns 25 percent,
could also be bought, said Hudson-Peacock of Cadiz. Xstrata
“may want to capitalize” on gains in Lonmin’s share price
since it originally bought the stake by selling the holding to
another company.  Barloworld, founded in Durban more than 100 years ago and
which sells machinery made by Caterpillar Inc., is “nicely
exposed to Africa,” according to McCurrie, who also said South
Africa’s largest food company,  Tiger Brands , which is turning to
making acquisitions outside its home market after failing to
last year buy its largest rival AVI Ltd., is a “good play” for
companies with the view that people spend more on food as
nations get richer.  Smaller South African companies, such as  Business Connexion
Ltd. , the computer-services company which had a take-over
approach from Telkom South Africa Ltd. blocked by regulators,
may also be an attractive asset to a company like International
Business Machines Corp., Hudson-Peacock said. Business Connexion
said in a statement today that it’s started unspecified talks
and calls to  Benjamin Mophatlane , the Chief Executive Officer,
and finance head,  Vanessa Olver , weren’t immediately returned.  ‘Head Office’  With as many as a third of Africa’s population carrying
mobile-phones, companies such as  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  of India
will seek other markets to gain a foothold. The company spent $9
billion to purchase the African assets of Kuwait’s Mobile
Telecommunications Co., giving it access to 15 African markets,
after failing in merger talks with MTN Group Ltd., the
continent’s largest mobile-phone operator.  While takeovers won’t be limited only to South Africa, as
the continent’s biggest economy its infrastructure and regulated
financial markets give foreign companies the confidence to make
big bets on the lure of using the nation as a springboard into
countries such as Kenya and Nigeria.  South Africa is like the “head office for the rest of
Africa” Shapiro said. “It’ll be a service centre” for
expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Renee Bonorchis  in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net . 