-- Wal-Mart to Increase Headcount 36% to 3 Million in Five Years
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2010-09-30T20:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/wal-mart-to-hire-800-000-in-the-next-five-years-chambers-says.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s
largest retailer, plans to increase its  workforce  by 36 percent
in the next five years as global economic growth boosts
spending.  New  employees  will be hired “mostly” outside the U.S.,
 Susan Chambers , executive vice president for human resources,
said in a speech at a conference in New Delhi today. “The
opportunity for growth is not just in India but global,” she
said, without providing more details on the hiring plans.  Wal-Mart plans to have 3 million workers in five years, up
from 2.2 million now, Chambers said.  Overseas sales  for the
world’s largest listed company by revenue have grown 91 percent
in the last five years to $100.1 billion, almost triple the pace
in the U.S., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s another nod to international growth as opposed to a
U.S. focus,” said  Brian Sozzi , an analyst at Wall Street
Strategies Inc. in New York. “It seems there is a real internal
push to guide market expectations towards Wal-Mart’s
international opportunity, in an attempt to re-energize the
stock.” He recommends holding the shares.  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer is boosting
overseas expansion to offset slowing growth in the U.S., where
same-store sales, which strip out the effects of new outlets,
have fallen for five consecutive quarters. Wal-Mart plans to
enter Africa by acquiring  Massmart Holdings Ltd.  in a
transaction worth about $4.6 billion.  ‘Adjust Model’  “This points to much more aggressive growth outside the
U.S., both through organic store expansion and acquisitions like
Massmart,” analyst  Colin McGranahan  of Sanford C. Bernstein in
New York said in an e-mail. “It means Wal-Mart is going to be
even more complex and needs to adjust its model to address local
market employee issues.” He rates the shares “market
perform.”  The Congress of South African Trade Unions, or Cosatu, the
nation’s largest labor federation, said today it is concerned
that the proposed takeover of Massmart may erode workers’
rights. Massmart, South Africa’s second-largest listed retailer,
said on Sept. 28 that it has “no doubt” that Wal-Mart will
honor pre-existing memberships that workers have with labor
unions.  Wal-Mart  rose 17 cents to $53.52 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares are little changed
this year.  Indian Rules  In India, Wal-Mart and rivals including  Carrefour SA  are
urging the government to allow overseas investment in multibrand
retailers after the trade ministry invited views from the
industry on the matter. India may decide in two to three months
whether to relax the restrictions, junior trade minister
 Jyotiraditya Scindia  said Sept. 17.  Indian laws limit overseas investment to single-brand
retail or wholesale outlets. The government of the world’s
second-most  populous  country is reviewing feedback it sought in
July from interested parties such as local and foreign
retailers, and industry groups, according to Scindia.  Wal-Mart has partnered with closely held Bharti Enterprises
Pvt. in India to open wholesale stores and build a supply chain
network.  The venture, Bharti-Walmart Pvt., plans to open 15 stores
in India by the end of 2011, Chief Executive Officer  Raj Jain 
said in New Delhi Sept. 28. It has three stores now.  Wal-Mart may open hundreds of stores in India should the
government lift the ban on foreign direct investment in
multibrand retailers, Jain said in July.  “India will take time to play out,” Wal-Mart’s
international chief  Doug McMillon  said in a June interview.
“Our hope is that at some point foreign direct investment is
opened up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at   flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 