-- Warren Reaches Out to Bankers, Says U.S. Consumers Need Clarity on Risks
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2010-09-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/warren-reaches-out-to-bankers-says-u-s-consumers-need-clarity-on-risks.html
Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard Law
School professor appointed to help set up a new U.S. consumer
watchdog, told Wall Street executives she wants to work with
them to create clearer contracts for financial products.  “Instead of using ever more complex disclosures that drive
up costs for lenders and provide little help for consumers,
let’s measure our success with simple questions,” Warren, who
was appointed this month, said in remarks prepared for a speech
last night to the  Financial Services Roundtable  in Washington,
which represents the nation’s largest banks and insurance
companies. “Can customers understand the product, figure out
the costs and risks, and compare products?”  The financial-services industry lobbied against the new
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, saying it would raise
costs, limit choice, and improperly separate oversight of
consumer issues and safety and soundness. JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  has said the agency would be
“just a whole new bureaucracy.”  Dimon, Citigroup Inc. General Counsel  Michael Helfer , U.S.
Bancorp CEO  Richard Davis , and PNC Financial Services Group Inc.
CEO  James Rohr  were expected to attend the dinner, according to
an administration official. Other expected attendees included
 Anne Finucane , Bank of America Corp.’s chief strategy officer,
and  James M. Wells III , CEO of SunTrust Banks Inc.  Warren focused her remarks on seeking cooperation from bank
executives to provide an “honest marketplace” for consumers.  Easy to Read  “I’m here with you tonight because I want to be part of a
discussion about how we can make the idea of a short, easy-to-
read agreement a reality,” Warren said.  “Good regulation is not about impeding market forces; it
is about unleashing those forces to work better,” she said.
Rules should ensure that “straight-up competition actually
works.”  Warren, 61, is serving as President  Barack Obama ’s
assistant and as a special adviser to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to help set up the bureau, a watchdog on products
from credit cards to mortgages.  Warren’s criticism of firms including Citigroup and insurer
 American International Group Inc . led business groups and
Republican lawmakers to question whether Warren, who has never
run a government agency or large company, could be an unbiased
leader of the consumer bureau.  The bureau, created under the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul
act signed by Obama in July, will start with a $400-million
budget. Its mandate includes guarding against exorbitant fees,
confusing contracts and other “unfair, deceptive or abusive”
practices. The agency has power to write regulations, extract
information from companies, levy fines and authorize states to
enforce its rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  