-- WellPoint, AT&T, Altria Step Up Donations to Sway State Races
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2010-09-30T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/wellpoint-at-t-altria-step-up-donations-to-sway-state-races.html
WellPoint Inc.  has given $842,000
to a group backing Republicans running for statewide offices
this year, almost as much as the company has donated to
candidates in U.S. congressional elections.  The contributions by the nation’s largest health insurer
underline the attention that companies are giving to state
races, even as those campaigns are overshadowed by federal
elections that will determine which party controls Congress.  WellPoint ,  AT&T Inc.  and  Altria Group Inc.  are among those
that have helped Republican committees raise more money for
state elections than their Democratic counterparts. At stake is
the makeup of legislatures that will redraw congressional
districts next year and decide on issues such as whether to chip
away at the nation’s new health-care law.  “The election this time has a more important impact” than
in past years, said  Paul Smith , a congressional redistricting
expert with the law firm of Jenner & Block LLP in Washington.
“And it will be multiplied over future elections” as
redistricting is used by the majority party to redraw the
electoral map to increase its chances of winning seats.  Democrats may have the most to lose with redistricting: Of
the 27 state legislative chambers most likely to change hands
after the November elections, 20 are now Democratic-controlled,
said  Tim Storey , an elections analyst for the Denver-based
National Conference of State Legislatures.  Corporate Money  The  Republican State Leadership Committee , the main
fundraising arm for the party’s candidates for lieutenant
governor, state legislator and attorney general, took in $12.8
million as of June 30, compared with $9.6 million for its
Democratic counterparts,  Internal Revenue Service  filings show.
The Republican group received another $1.5 million on Aug. 31,
from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce alone.  Seventeen  of the biggest donors to the committee, whose
chairman is  Ed Gillespie , a former aide to President  George W. Bush , are companies. They include  Wal-Mart Stores Inc.  and  Exxon
Mobil Corp. , as well as WellPoint. Also contributing were two
trade groups, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of
America and the Entertainment Software Association, whose
members include the  Walt Disney Co.  and  Microsoft Corp.   People “are concerned about how the states are being
run,” said Gillespie.  National Democratic Party committees have outdone the
Republicans at the federal level, raising $359 million for the
2010 elections, compared with $323 million for the rival party,
 Federal Election Commission  filings show.  ‘Playing Defense’  Yet the Republican Governors Association has outraised its
 Democratic counterpart , $58 million to $40 million, including a
$1 million contribution from News Corp., the New York-based
media company whose chairman is  Rupert Murdoch .  “Democrats are playing defense just about everywhere,”
said Storey.  Nationwide, Democrats now control 60 state legislative
chambers to 36 for the Republicans. The balance of power matters
because every 10 years the states redraw the lines for
congressional and state legislative seats to reflect population
shifts so each district has roughly the same number of
residents.  Frank Donatelli , a former aide to President  Ronald Reagan ,
said corporate giving is driven by the perception that
Republican-controlled legislatures are friendlier to business.  “These companies have a lot of regulatory and tax issues;
generally speaking, they’d much rather have a Republican
legislature,” said Donatelli, the chairman of  Gopac,  which
funds Republicans running for state and local office.  Used to It  Michael Sargeant , executive director of the Democratic
Legislative Campaign Committee, said he wasn’t concerned.  “We’re used to being outspent by Republicans,” he said.  The $842,000 that Indianapolis-based WellPoint and a
subsidiary gave to Gillespie’s group for state elections was up
from $35,000 in 2008; IRS filings show. The company gave nothing
to Democrats. WellPoint has donated more than $890,000 to 2010
federal candidates, about 70 percent of which went to
Republicans.  WellPoint was critical of aspects of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul. State officials must put
provisions of the law in place, and some state attorneys general
are suing to overturn it in court.  Kristin Binns  and Jon Mills, WellPoint spokesmen, didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  Dallas-based AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, gave
$249,866 to Gillespie’s group and $173,000 to the Democrats.
 Michael Balmoris , an AT&T spokesman, declined comment.  ‘Active Participants’  Two tobacco companies were among the largest corporate
givers. Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based  Reynolds American
Inc.  donated more than $600,000 to the Republicans and about
$60,000 to the Democrats, and Richmond, Virginia-based Altria,
the largest tobacco company, contributed $418,124 to the
Republicans and $155,000 to the Democrats.  “We’re active participants in the political process,”
said  David Sutton , an Altria spokesman.  Maura Payne , a Reynolds
spokeswoman, had no immediate comment.  Several banks affected by the new financial regulation law
weighed in. Charlotte, North Carolina-based  Bank of America
Corp. , the biggest U.S. bank, gave $120,000 to the Republicans
through Aug. 31 and the same amount to the Democrats through
June 30.  Citigroup Inc. , based in New York, gave $150,000 to the
Republicans in July.  Shirley Norton , a Bank of America spokeswoman, and  Molly Millerwise Meiners , a Citigroup spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  “The decisions that are made in these state houses have a
direct impact on our quality of life,” Gillespie said. “This
year, it also has a big impact on the composition of Congress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 