-- WestLB Is Offered for Sale by the End of 2011 as Shareholders Seek Bidders
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   A l a n   P u r k i s s
-- 2010-09-30T08:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/westlb-is-offered-for-sale-by-the-end-of-2011-as-shareholders-seek-bidders.html
WestLB AG , the German state-owned
lender that must be sold by 2011 under conditions imposed by the
European Commission, was offered for sale by its shareholders in
an advertisement in Financial Times today.  Interested parties should submit “expressions of
interest” in the bidding process to Morgan Stanley, which is
advising on the sale, by Oct. 28, according to the newspaper
advertisement. The aim is to sign a purchase agreement by Aug.
31, 2011, and complete the sale by Dec. 31, 2011, it said.  Germany’s Soffin bank-rescue fund, which provided 3 billion
euros ($4.1 billion) of capital to WestLB, said in June that a
sale of the lender would start by Sept. 30 after appointing
 Friedrich Merz , a lawyer and former lawmaker, to oversee the
process. Dusseldorf-based WestLB said earlier this month that it
was examining a possible merger with  Bayerische Landesbank  that
would create the country’s third-biggest bank.  The advertisement is part of the agreed-upon sales process,
WestLB spokesman  Armin Kloss  said today.  As part of its restructuring, the lender also set up a
separate bad bank to rid itself of about a third of its assets,
including toxic securities.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has said he will
intensify his attempts to solve problems at the state-owned
lenders, also known as Landesbanken. New capital rules approved
by central bankers and regulators in Basel have increased
pressure on state banks to try to bolster their businesses with
mergers after taxpayer bailouts.  German officials may agree on how to merge state-owned
banks as soon as the middle of 2011, said Deputy Finance
Minister  Steffen Kampeter  this week. The federal Finance
Ministry aims to forge a merger plan between the end of 2010, a
deadline sought by state prime ministers, and the end of 2011,
as favored by savings banks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alan Purkiss  in London on   apurkiss@bloomberg.net ;
 Aaron Kirchfeld  in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  