-- Wheat Plunges to Two-Month Low as Demand May Fall With Corn Inventory Gain
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2010-09-30T19:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/wheat-plunges-to-two-month-low-as-demand-may-fall-with-corn-inventory-gain.html
Wheat futures fell to a two-month
low on speculation that demand from livestock producers will
slow after the U.S. government reported bigger-than-expected
inventories of corn, the primary source of animal feed.  Corn prices in Chicago slumped to a two-week low after the
U.S. Department of Agriculture said domestic inventories on
Sept. 1 were the highest in four years. Wheat stockpiles were 11
percent larger than a year earlier. Wheat prices have surged 40
percent since June 30 as drought harmed crops in Russia,
widening the grain’s premium to corn.  “In spite of the problems in Russia, there’s still quite a
bit of wheat around,” said  Tomm Pfitzenmaier , a partner at
Summit Commodity Brokerage in Des Moines, Iowa. “Corn is still,
in the world trade, a cheaper feed grain than wheat is.”  Wheat futures for December delivery fell 9.5 cents, or 1.4
percent, to settle at $6.74 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago
Board of Trade, after touching $6.51, the lowest level for a
most-active contract since July 30.  Corn futures for December delivery slipped 1.8 percent to
settle at $4.9575 a bushel on the CBOT, after earlier touching
$4.7825, the lowest level since Sept. 13. Soybean futures fell
as much as 1.5 percent before rebounding.  Wheat prices still may pare losses on expectations for
lower U.S. production, said  Dan Kuechenmeister , the manager of
the commodities department at RBC Dain Rauscher in Minneapolis,
Minnesota.  The U.S. will harvest 2.224 billion bushels of wheat in the
marketing year that began June 1, the USDA said today in a
separate report. That’s 1.8 percent less than the agency
estimated on Sept. 10.  “Spring-wheat production was lowered a little bit, so that
should be a little bit supportive,” Kuechenmeister said. “But,
unfortunately, these grain markets seem to be in a three-legged
race. They’re all tied together.”  Wheat is the fourth-biggest U.S. crop, valued at $10.6
billion in 2009, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show. The U.S. is the largest wheat exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 