-- Whitney Says States May Need Federal Bailout in Next 12 Months
-- B y   B e t t y   L i u   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2010-09-30T18:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/whitney-says-states-may-need-federal-bailout-in-next-12-months.html
The U.S. government will face
pressure to bail out struggling states in the next 12 months,
said  Meredith Whitney , the banking analyst who correctly
predicted Citigroup Inc.’s dividend cut in 2008.  While saying a bailout might not be politically viable,
Whitney joined investor  Warren Buffett  in raising alarm bells
about the potential for widespread defaults in the $2.8 trillion
municipal bond market. She said state and local issuers have
taken on too much debt and that the gap between public spending
and revenue is unsustainable.  “People will think the federal government will bail these
states out,” Whitney, 40, the founder of Meredith Whitney
Advisory Group Inc., said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop.” “It’s going to be an incredibly
divisive issue.”  Whitney’s comments coincide with her release of a report
rating the financial health of the 15 largest U.S. states
measured by gross domestic product, according to Fortune
magazine. The report, which Whitney said took two years to
complete and hasn’t been released publicly, ranks California’s
finances the worst, with  New Jersey ,  Illinois  and  Ohio  tied for
second-worst.  The longest recession since the Great Depression has left
states facing budget gaps of $72 billion next fiscal year,
according to a July report by the National Conference on State
Legislatures. State pension funds face deficits of more than $1
trillion, according to the  Pew Center on the States . The amount
of municipal debt outstanding has increased about 90 percent in
the last decade, according to Federal Reserve data.  Buffett and Bailouts  In May, Buffett, whose  Berkshire Hathaway Inc . owns and
insures municipal debt, told shareholders at the company’s
annual meeting that the federal government would likely bail out
a state that faced financial distress.  Municipal bond analysts including  George Friedlander  of
Citigroup say those predicting widespread defaults are
exaggerating the connection between budget pressure and failure
to meet payments on general-obligation bonds.  “While states’ financial conditions are undeniably
stressed now and will reasonably remain stressed for the next
decade or more, GO bondholders are generally well-cushioned
versus other interested parties -- taxpayers, service
recipients, employees, vendors -- who will feel pain more
directly,” said Municipal Market Advisors in a report today.
The Concord, Massachusetts-based firm said it hasn’t seen
Whitney’s report.  Bondholder Claims  Whitney overlooks the claim bondholders have over pledged
revenue and the willingness of municipalities to pay debt
obligations to maintain access to the capital markets, Municipal
Market Advisors said.  A study last year by Moody’s Investors Service found 54
defaults in municipal bonds it rated from 1970 to 2009. Although
gross domestic product declined 30 percent during the
Depression, the cumulative default rate for municipal bonds was
2.7 percent, according to Citigroup.  Since December, the total  net assets  of municipal bond
funds has increased 12.3 percent to $513.3 billion, according to
the Washington-based Investment Company Institute.  Yields on  20-year general obligation bonds  reached a 44-
year low this month of 3.83 percent, according to the Bond Buyer
20 General Obligation Bond Index. The Build America Bonds
program, which allows municipalities to issue taxable federally
subsidized debt, has led some issuers to sell fewer tax-exempt
bonds.  No ‘Systemic Risk’  Average yields on  Build America Bonds  yesterday fell about
3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.48 percent, the
lowest on record, according to data from a Wells Fargo index
dating to Aug. 26, 2009.  “I haven’t seen any significant widening of credit spreads
or inability to finance,” Friedlander said in a telephone
interview today. “Do I see any systemic risk for the U.S.
economy coming out of this? No. I do see we’re going into a more
fiscally conservative political climate and state and local
governments will be held to more rigorous standards of behavior
than they have in the last 30 years.”  Whitney’s report rates the states on four criteria: the
economy, fiscal health, housing and the flexibility to raise
taxes. Florida, which has the second-highest U.S. foreclosure
rate, according to RealtyTrac, is better off than New York or
New Jersey, because it can adopt an income tax if necessary.  From 2000 to 2008, while states increased their spending by
60 percent, their revenue base increased by 45 percent. They
bridged the gap by using federal aid, raiding their pension
funds or by borrowing, Whitney said in a separate interview with
 Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio.  Avoiding ‘Pain’  “You take on more leverage to avoid long-term pain,”
Whitney said.  U.S. states won’t default, Whitney said. Instead, they will
cut aid to local governments, putting them at greater risk.
Local governments get one-third of their revenue from state
transfers, Whitney said.  Still, debt service is also a limited portion of the budget
for most municipalities. State and local governments will make
$111 billion in interest payments on their debt this year, 5
percent of the $2 trillion they collect in taxes, according to
the U.S. Commerce Department’s  Bureau of Economic Research .  State tax revenue has started to rebound. According to a
survey by the NCSL, 40 states expect total tax collections in
fiscal year 2011 to be higher than they were in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Betty Liu  in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net ;
 Martin Z. Braun  in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  