-- Why Debtholders Need to Get Ready for a Haircut: Peter Coy
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2010-09-30T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/why-debtholders-need-to-get-ready-for-a-haircut-peter-coy.html
There is no end in sight to Ireland’s
debt crisis, but here’s one thing we know: The Irish will not
get kicked out of their own country. No matter how many
multiples of the nation’s  gross domestic product  are owed to
German and U.K. banks, sovereign foreclosure isn’t an option.  In most other respects, though, the state of Ireland is
similar to the predicament that one in five American homeowners
with mortgages find themselves in -- owing more than their
property is worth, so burdened with debt that the economy is
stalled by their inability to borrow and spend as they used to.  With homeowners, at least, there’s foreclosure, which is
devastating but creates hope that debtors might regain something
close to a normal life, albeit as renters. Those determined to
stay in their own homes need something lenders have thus far
been reluctant to offer: a reduction in principal, a lessening
of the debt. Another word for it is a haircut.  The entire taxpaying public of Ireland, it turns out, needs
the same thing done to the debts it acquired in saving the
nation’s reckless banks. A growing chorus of economists,
including  Carmen Reinhart  of the University of Maryland, is
making this argument. But policy makers have shown few signs of
even considering it. Why?  The situation in Ireland certainly calls for dramatic
action. In Dublin, a protester driving a cement truck emblazoned
with the words “ TOXIC BANK ” rammed the ornate iron gate of the
Irish Parliament early on Sept. 29.  Shaky Real Estate  Later that day, inside the purple-carpeted chamber of the
lower house, representatives from opposition parties grilled
Prime Minister  Brian Cowen  over the enormous cost of bailing out
Anglo Irish Bank, the shaky real estate lender Ireland was
forced to nationalize in January 2009 after Irish land prices
fell as much as 70 percent from their peak. “What you have done
with this government has crushed the spirit of the people,”
said  Enda Kenny , leader of the opposition Fine Gael party.  Ireland illustrates why governments need to make private
creditors share the pain. The bursting of its real estate bubble
left the country overwhelmed with bad debts and forced the
government to impose painful budget cuts. Embracing austerity
has won Ireland the praise of the European Union -- and little
else.  The Irish economy shrank at an annual rate of 5 percent in
the second quarter because the sharp reduction in government
spending hasn’t been offset by a jump in private spending. And
its borrowing costs have surged. Investors now have to pay 4.7
percent of the face value of Irish government bonds annually to
protect against the risk of default for five years, 12 times the
cost for insurance on German bonds.  Blanket Guarantee  What’s forcing up borrowing costs is the Irish government’s
fateful September 2008 decision to throw a blanket taxpayer
guarantee over all the liabilities of Ireland’s six big banks.
Three have since been nationalized. Standard & Poor’s projected
in August that the bailout of  Anglo Irish  alone might ultimately
cost 35 billion euros or more. Measured against the size of the
economy, that’s comparable to a $3 trillion bailout for a single
U.S. bank.  Yesterday, Irish Finance Minister Brian Lenihan estimated
the final cost of bailing out Anglo Irish Bank will come to 29.3
billion euros, or 34.3 billion euros in the worst case. And he
vowed to repay the bank’s senior bondholders in full. In a news
release, Lenihan said stiffing creditors even partially
“creates a significant risk of jeopardizing the banking
system’s, and  indeed the state’s, access to international debt
markets and cannot be countenanced on that basis.”  Covered Creditors  Like Ireland, the U.S. has been slow to impose big losses
on creditors. That pattern goes back to 2008, when the
government took over  American International Group , then the
world’s biggest insurer, and insulated AIG’s creditors from
losses. Today, protected creditors include banks that made
unwise loans, bondholders and other lenders to those banks, and
holders of securities backed by mortgages, auto loans, credit-
card receivables, and other debts.  Mike Larson , a real estate analyst for Weiss Research in
Jupiter, Florida, says that by modifying loans without reducing
what people owe, “You’re not fixing the problem. You’ve got to
start thinking about principal reductions.”  The foot-dragging on writedowns is most obvious in the
failure of mortgage-modification efforts by both  George W. Bush 
and  Barack Obama . To save mortgage lenders from having to post
big losses, the efforts steered away from principal writedowns,
focusing instead on reducing  interest rates  or stretching out
loan terms to lower payments. According to the  State Foreclosure
Prevention Working Group , an organization of state attorneys
general, “the vast majority” of mortgage modifications raised
rather than reduced the amount of money homeowners owed.  Bad Behavior  Creditors object that debt forgiveness will encourage bad
behavior. People, they say, will borrow recklessly knowing that
if things go bad they won’t be required to pay it all back.  This argument has merit. However, it’s equally misguided
for the government to guarantee penny-for-penny repayment of
private debts. That encourages even more foolish lending because
creditors know they’ll be fully protected from the consequences
of their dumb lending decisions. Says Reinhart: “Before private
debt becomes public, it’s important that it do so at a very
realistic price so it doesn’t inflate the government  balance
sheet  unnecessarily. And that means big haircuts.”  One way or another, the world’s savers and investors are
going to have to pay the bill for unrecoverable debts. The
question is whether that happens in a rip-the-Band-Aid-off round
of debt reduction or is dribbled out over years in the form of
government-induced inflation (which will ease the burden of debt
while eating away at the value of savings).  Policymakers are clearly concerned about the potential
consequences of principal reduction. If my neighbor gets his
mortgage reduced, why not mine? The stigma will be gone, and
then who knows what happens? It’s scary, all right. Yet the
situation in Ireland shows there may be no alternative.  ( Peter Coy ’s column will appear in Bloomberg Businessweek’s
Oct. 4 issue. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Coy in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hugo Lindgren at   hlindgren@bloomberg.net . 