-- Women Say Bar Female Reporters From NFL Locker Rooms in Seton Hall Poll
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2010-09-30T18:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/women-say-bar-female-reporters-from-nfl-locker-rooms-in-seton-hall-poll.html
Female reporters should be barred
from National Football League locker rooms, according to a
majority of women surveyed in a  Seton Hall University  poll.  The telephone poll conducted this week among 1,026 randomly
selected adults nationwide found 59 percent of 556 women and 47
percent of 470 men said female reporters should be banned from
NFL locker rooms. Thirty-four percent of the respondents said
all reporters should be banned. The poll has a margin of error
of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  “It is unusual to find women more than men in favor of
limiting a woman’s right, in this case a reporter in a men’s
locker room,”  Rick Gentile , director of the Seton Hall  Sports
Poll , said in a statement.  The findings come two weeks after the NFL said the New York
Jets had shown “unprofessional conduct” when they hooted and
hollered at Ines Sainz, a 32-year-old reporter for the Mexican
network TV Azteca, who was waiting to interview quarterback  Mark Sanchez . The NFL also reminded all 30 teams that the same rules
of access applied to all members of the news media.  In the same poll, 74 percent of respondents said the NFL
should create rules mandating a specific amount of recovery time
for players who sustain concussions.  Congress, which has held hearings on the prevalence and
effects of concussions in recent months, is considering a bill
mandating that local school districts take greater precautionary
measures.  No Government  Fifty-six percent of respondents said the government
shouldn’t get involved.  “This seems to be in keeping with the public’s current
view that the government should not be taking on additional
responsibilities,” Gentile said.  Respondents also addressed whether player misbehavior off
the field detracts from the enjoyment of NFL games. Older
respondents were more critical of the athletes and the league’s
effort to clean up bad behavior away from the game.  Fifty-six percent of all respondents said bad behavior
detracted from the game, but the number fell to 33 percent among
18- to 29-year-olds.  When asked if the league is doing enough to eliminate poor
off-field behavior, 26 of respondents said yes, but the number
improved to 41 percent among 18- to 29-year-olds. The poll
questions didn’t specify any particular case or category of
behavior among players.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup in New York at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  