-- Fox to Air World Series Game 3 Earlier in Bid to Boost Younger Viewership
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2010-09-30T15:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/world-series-game-3-to-have-earliest-title-round-starting-time-since-1987.html
The start of Game 3 of the World
Series will be moved up one hour from a year ago, giving Major
League Baseball its earliest beginning to a championship contest
since 1987 as the sport tries to reach younger fans.  The Oct. 30 game on  News Corp .’s Fox will start at 6:57
p.m. New York time, Major League Baseball said in a news
release.  Baseball last season moved up its league championship
series and World Series starts to before 8 p.m. for the first
time since 1971. The New York Yankees’ six-game win over the
Philadelphia Phillies for the title produced the highest
television viewership for the championship round in five years,
averaging 19.4 million viewers.  “The changes we made with Fox last year to start the World
Series games earlier helped increase viewership including more
young fans,” baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  said in a
statement. “We are optimistic that the earlier start time for
Saturday’s Game 3 will keep us moving in the same direction.”  Baseball and its television rights-holders have been
criticized by fans and the news media for starting postseason
games so late that they often end near midnight New York time on
school nights, depriving youngsters of watching the end of the
sport’s most important contests. The later starts allow
television networks to reach larger audiences and charge more
for ads.  The first two games of this year’s World Series will be
held at the National League team’s park on Oct. 27 and 28. Games
3, 4 and 5 will be played in the American League stadium before
the teams return to the NL park if Games 6 and 7 are needed. The
NL’s All-Star Game win over the AL in July decided home-field
advantage.  Start times other than Game 3 will be at 7:57 p.m. except
for Game 4, which is scheduled for 8:20 and will begin after the
conclusion of the National Football League coverage by Fox.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mason Levinson  in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 