-- Yellen, Raskin Win Senate Approval for Fed Board of Governors
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2010-09-30T04:03:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/yellen-raskin-win-fed-board-confirmation-as-vote-on-monetary-easing-nears.html
The U.S. Senate confirmed  Janet Yellen  as vice chairman of the Federal Reserve along with a
second nominee to the central bank’s board, clearing the way for
their votes on possible new measures to boost the economy.  The chamber approved Yellen, currently president of the San
Francisco Fed, and  Sarah Bloom Raskin , Maryland’s commissioner
of financial regulation, in voice votes late last night ahead of
Congress’s adjournment for the Nov. 2 midterm elections.  Yellen, 64, and Raskin, 49, will join the Fed’s Board of
Governors as policy makers debate taking action to reduce
borrowing costs and help lower unemployment persisting near a
26-year high. Some economists predict Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
and his colleagues will resume large-scale asset purchases, or
quantitative easing, at the  central bank’s  Nov. 2-3 policy
meeting.  “The ranks of the policy makers who are more willing to
act and believe that quantitative easing can be effective just
went up,” said  Vincent Reinhart , the Fed’s monetary-affairs
director from 2001 to 2007. Yellen, who has participated in Fed
policy meetings this year without voting, may become a “more
forceful advocate” for action now that her confirmation is no
longer pending, Reinhart said.  In its Sept. 21 statement, the Fed’s Open Market Committee
said it’s prepared to ease monetary policy if needed and that
inflation is below what’s consistent with the central bank’s
congressional mandate for maximum employment and stable prices.  Four-Year Term  The Fed has been operating with four of seven governors
since former Vice Chairman  Donald Kohn  retired Sept. 1. Yellen
will have a renewable four-year term as vice chairman and a
separate term as governor through January 2024. Raskin’s term
will run through January 2016.  Yellen said at a Banking Committee confirmation hearing on
July 15 that the central bank must focus on creating jobs and
reducing “painfully high” unemployment. Raskin told the panel
that the Fed’s achievement of stable prices is “only a partial
victory when many American households continue to face the
perils of unemployment.”  The Senate is only acting on two of President  Barack Obama ’s three nominees because the third,  Peter Diamond , was
forced to start the confirmation process over in August.
Diamond’s nomination was returned to the White House because of
objections from at least one unidentified senator. The White
House resubmitted his nomination to the Senate on Sept. 13.  Second Hearing  Richard Shelby , the senior Republican on the Banking
Committee, said Sept. 23 he sought a second hearing to discuss
Diamond’s qualifications, and Chairman  Christopher Dodd  agreed.
Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat, hasn’t announced a date for a
hearing. The panel approved all three nominees in July, with
Diamond winning a 16-7 vote.  Senators in committee also voted 17-6 for Yellen and 21-2
for Raskin. All of the opposition came from Republican members.  Without a hearing before Election Day, Diamond’s chances
for joining  the Fed  may hinge on whether Dodd can schedule a
hearing and committee vote during a so-called lame-duck
congressional session after elections.  Yellen spent most of her career teaching economics and
researching labor markets, joining the University of California
at Berkeley in 1980, and is married to  George Akerlof , a Nobel
Prize-winning economist.  Clinton Appointee  In 1994, then-President  Bill Clinton  appointed Yellen to be
a Fed governor in Washington, serving until 1997, when Clinton
moved her to the White House to chair the Council of Economic
Advisers. She left the position in 1999 to return to Berkeley.  Yellen rejoined the Fed in 2004 as president of its San
Francisco district bank, which represents the largest region by
area and economic output. She has always voted with the majority
of policy makers on interest-rate decisions.  Under the Federal Reserve Act, John Moore, chief operating
officer of the San Francisco Fed, would automatically serve as
interim president of the bank until a permanent successor is
named. Moore, 54, has been the regional bank’s No. 2 officer
since 1996, responsible for all administration, financial
services and operations in the bank’s district.  One potential candidate to succeed Yellen is  Christina Romer , former chairman of Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers
who said Sept. 3 she “would be honored” to be considered for
the post.  Without a full board, existing governors have additional
duties overseeing supervision, budgets and regional Fed banks
that are usually spread out among members. The central bank is
gearing up to carry out directives under the Dodd-Frank law
overhauling financial regulation that was enacted in July.  “Congress has told the Board of Governors to write a lot
of regulations associated with Dodd-Frank,” said Reinhart, now
a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington.
“That taxes senior policy makers -- and therefore Chairman
Bernanke having company to delegate some of that work is a good
thing.”  Bernanke said in testimony prepared for a Senate Banking
Committee hearing tomorrow that the Fed has identified about 250
projects associated with carrying out the law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Lanman  in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  