-- Yoplait Owners Said to Hire Morgan Stanley, SocGen for Sale
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2010-09-30T10:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/yoplait-owners-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-socgen-for-sale.html
PAI Partners, the French private-
equity firm, and dairy cooperative Sodiaal hired Morgan Stanley
and Societe Generale to manage the sale of PAI’s 50 percent
stake in yogurt maker Yoplait, said four people with knowledge
of the matter.  The banks will jointly advise Yoplait’s owners while BNP
Paribas and Rothschild may also have a role advising PAI, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
confidential. Sodiaal, which founded Yoplait and owns the other
half of it, doesn’t intend to sell its shares in the company.  PAI, which manages a 2.7 billion-euro ($3.7 billion) buyout
fund, is considering selling its stake in Yoplait, in a deal
that may value the company at about 1.2 billion euros, said
people involved in the talks in July. PAI has had its investment
in Yoplait since 2002. Leveraged buyout fund managers are
seeking to return cash to investors after the credit crisis
stymied dealmaking for two years.  Yoplait, based in Boulogne-Billancourt, France, has grown
to become the world’s second-largest yogurt brand by operating
internationally through a franchise network.  A sale may be complicated by a dispute between Sodiaal and
General Mills Inc., which has been selling Yoplait products in
the U.S. since 1977. Sodiaal said it aims to end the license on
Sept. 9, 2012, according to a General Mills regulatory filing on
Sept. 22. Minneapolis-based General Mills said it petitioned for
arbitration earlier this month.  Jacques Caillaud, a spokesman for Sodiaal declined to
comment. A spokesman for PAI didn’t return calls for comment.
 Michael Wang , a spokesman for Morgan Stanley in London, and a
spokesman for Societe Generale, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anne-Sylvaine Chassany  in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 