-- Yuan Weakens for First Time in 13 Days After U.S. Lawmakers Approve Duties
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2010-09-30T09:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/yuan-weakens-for-first-time-in-13-days-after-u-s-lawmakers-approve-duties.html
The yuan weakened for the first
time in 13 days on speculation China won’t accelerate
appreciation in response to the threat of U.S. trade sanctions.  The central bank set the reference rate for daily trade
weaker for the first time in three days after the House of
Representatives yesterday voted 348-79 for a measure that would
let domestic companies petition for duties on imports from China
to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan. Foreign ministry
spokeswoman Jiang Yu said today the bill would hurt the global
economy if it becomes law.  “The fixing shows the Chinese government’s attitude
towards the vote,” said  Liu Li-gang , a Hong Kong-based
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “China
wants to show it won’t yield to any foreign pressure. It will
determine the policy based on its own economic fundamentals.”  The yuan dropped 0.07 percent to 6.6912 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
It has gained 1.74 percent this month, the biggest monthly
advance since a dollar peg was ended in July 2005, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stephen Roach , chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia, yesterday
said the U.S. is taking the wrong approach because the
legislation voted on will fail to solve the U.S. trade deficit
and won’t spur domestic job growth.  Wrong Approach  “It really misses the true opportunity that we as a nation
need to think about and that is how we can uncover new sources
of growth to create jobs,” Roach said at a panel on emerging
markets yesterday at Bloomberg World Headquarters in New York.  Former People’s Bank of China advisor  Fan Gang  said
yesterday in Guangzhou the yuan will continue small-scale
appreciation “for some time,” the Shanghai Securities News
 reported .  Democrats were joined by 99 of the 178 Republicans on the
vote. The administration of President  Barack Obama , which hasn’t
taken a position on the bill, acknowledged the sentiment. The
vote “clearly shows lawmakers have serious concerns,” Natalie
Wyeth, Treasury Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The Senate will take up its version of the bill after a
November election, Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat,
said in a statement yesterday.  Trade Gap  China this year has run up a $145 billion  trade surplus 
with the U.S., more than the U.S. deficit with the next seven-
largest trading partners combined. Obama pressed China’s Premier
 Wen Jiabao  in a two-hour meeting at the United Nations on Sept.
23 to increase the yuan’s value. Wen said a day earlier that a
20 percent increase in the currency would cause severe job
losses and trigger social instability in China.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, retailers, apparel importers
and financial firms opposed the currency bill, and wrote to
lawmakers before the vote saying passage may lead to retaliation
against businesses with investments in China or exporters of
farm and manufactured goods.  The practical effect of the currency measure would be
limited because bringing so-called countervailing duty
complaints is expensive and time-consuming. U.S. companies need
to show they are being injured by low-cost imports and a
domestic industry must be producing the same product, said Scott
Lincicome, a trade lawyer at White & Case in Washington.  The legislation is expected to raise no more than $20
million a year in additional projected duties, compared with
more than $1 billion in daily imports from China in July, the
non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimated.  ‘Political Scapegoat’  “The passing of the China bill amounts to very little as
far as the yuan is concerned,” said  Douglas Borthwick , head of
foreign-exchange trading at Stamford, Connecticut-based Faros
Trading LLC. “The U.S. Congress is using this bill to create a
political scapegoat out of China. Doing so immediately before
their own elections allows members of Congress to blame China
for the economic ills faced by their constituents.”  The yuan has risen 2 percent since a two-year peg to the
greenback was scrapped on June 19. ANZ’s Liu said the yuan may
rise to 6.63 per dollar by the end of this year. The daily rate
was fixed weaker by the central bank at 6.7011, compared with
6.6936 yesterday.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Sandy Hendry,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-7047 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 