-- Yuan Savings in Hong Kong Rise to Record Last Month as Products Available
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2010-09-30T10:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/yuan-savings-in-hong-kong-rise-to-record-last-month-as-products-available.html
Yuan  deposits  in Hong Kong jumped
25.8 percent in August to a record, the biggest gain since April
2008, after investment products denominated in the currency
became available in the offshore market.  Savings in the renminbi have more than doubled this year to
130.4 billion yuan ($19.5 billion), the highest level since the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority allowed yuan accounts to be set up
in February 2004.  McDonald’s Corp.,  the world’s largest
restaurant chain, sold 200 million yuan of bonds on Aug. 20.
 United Co. Rusal , the world’s biggest aluminum producer, also
said it planned to offer yuan notes in the city to “grow their
presence” on the Chinese market.  “Investors are interested in buying these yuan products as
they’re good ways to ride the tide of the currency’s
appreciation outlook,” said  Andrew Ng , the Singapore-based head
of treasury and markets at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. “We’ll see
the pool of deposits keep growing rapidly.”  The yuan has strengthened two percent to 6.6912 against the
U.S. dollar since a two-year peg to the greenback was scrapped
on June 19. It jumped 1.7 percent this month on speculation the
government will allow faster gains in response to mounting
political pressure from the U.S., where the House of
Representatives yesterday voted in favor of a bill that would
let American companies petition for duties on imports from China
to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan.  Fifty-six percent of Hong Kong’s importers and exporters
expect to use the Chinese currency to settle trades in the next
six months, HSBC Holdings Plc said yesterday, citing a global
survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Hong Kong at  at
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 