-- Etisalat Offers $10.5 Billion for Zain Stake in Its Biggest Deal
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2010-09-30T13:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2010-09-30/zain-shareholders-said-likely-to-approve-today-etisalat-bid-for-46-stake.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. ,
the United Arab Emirates’ largest phone company, offered to buy
46 percent of Kuwait’s Zain for about $10.5 billion in its
biggest-ever deal.  Etisalat, as the Abu Dhabi-based company is known, said in
a statement to the stock exchange today that it offered 1.7
Kuwaiti dinars a share for the stake in Zain, Kuwait’s largest
mobile-phone company. Based on Zain’s 3.85 billion  shares
outstanding , not including its 10 percent treasury stock, the
transaction is valued at about $10.5 billion.  “Etisalat will be the biggest in the area, and the Kuwaiti
market is a very profitable one,” said  Jassim al-Saadoun , head
of Al-Shall Economic Consultants in Kuwait.  The deal would give Etisalat majority control of Zain and
extend its reach in the Middle East, where Zain operates in
countries from Kuwait and Iraq to Bahrain after selling most of
its African assets this year to Indian billionaire  Sunil Mittal ’s  Bharti Airtel Ltd.  for $9 billion.  Holders of the 46 percent stake in Zain today approved the
Etisalat offer, a person familiar with the deal said. Zain
shareholders leading the stake sale have sent an acceptance
letter today, the person said, declining to be named because the
discussions are private. The two sides plan to start talks as
soon as possible, the person said.  Etisalat’s offer is “suitable and good for both parties,”
Al-Qabas reported today, citing  Nasser al-Kharafi , chairman of
Kuwait’s Kharafi Group. The Kharafi Group is the second-largest
shareholder in Zain, with about 13 percent. Kuwait Investment
Authority, the country’s sovereign wealth fund, is Zain’s
 largest shareholder  with 24.6 percent.  Saudi Unit  Etisalat’s offer is 25 percent more than Zain’s closing
stock price yesterday of 1,360, after it rose 7.9 percent in the
day. Shares were suspended today, pending clarification of the
offer. Etisalat fell 0.5 percent to close at 10.75 dirhams in
Abu Dhabi, after providing details of the offer.  Etisalat said in its statement that no final agreement has
been reached.  National Bank of Kuwait , the country’s biggest
lender, is brokering the deal, two people familiar with the
matter said yesterday.  Etisalat may have to deal with the overlap in Saudi Arabia
with the purchase, said Al-Shall’s al-Saadoun. Etisalat and Zain
both offer phone services in Saudi Arabia through their units.  “They will have to sell Saudi, or change ownership,” he
said.  Etisalat offers telecommunications services in 18 countries
in the Middle East, Africa and Asia, counting more than 100
million customers, according to its website. The seven emirates
of the  U.A.E make up  about 86 percent of Etisalat’s sales.  Zain had 34.2 million customers at the end of the first
half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Fiona MacDonald  in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  