-- Aeroflot signs deal to buy 22 Boeing Dreamliners
-- By  Guy Faulconbridge  and Denis Pinchuk
-- Sat Jun 9, 2007 2:09pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/06/09/businesspro-russia-summit-aeroflot-signi-idUSL0945391320070609

 

 ST PETERSBURG, Russia  (Reuters) - Russian national airline 
Aeroflot ( AFLT.MM ) signed a multi-billion dollar deal on 
Saturday to buy 22 Boeing ( BA.N ) 787 Dreamliner aircraft and 
said it would soon sign a similar deal with Airbus. 

  Russia has tried to use the deals to play off U.S. Boeing 
against Europe's Airbus for more than a year as the Kremlin 
seeks to flex its growing economic clout on the world stage.  "We are very, very pleased that today has arrived," Scott 
Carson, chief executive of Boeing's commercial airplane unit, 
told reporters after the contract was signed.  "We have been working very hard with Aeroflot for a number 
of years, helping them identify their requirements," he said.  First Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov, who oversees 
Russia's aviation sector, presided over the signing ceremony at 
the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. He 
congratulated Carson over a glass of champagne.  Asked whether the revival of the order would affect an 
earlier tentative deal to buy 22 planes from rival Airbus 
( EAD.PA ), Aeroflot CEO Valery Okulov said a firm order would be 
signed later in the year.  "We will sign a firm order for 22 A-350s either at Le 
Bourget or at MAKS," Okulov said, referring to the Paris air 
show on June 18-14 and its Russian counterpart on August 21-26. 
"So it will be in the summer."  Okulov said the Airbuses would enter service between 2014 
and 2017. Okulov and Carson refused to comment on the value of 
the deals. Analysts say the deals are worth about $2.5 billion 
each.  Aeroflot will finance the Boeing order with a syndicated 
loan guaranteed by the U.S. Export-Import bank, Okulov said. He 
declined to name the investment banks involved in the 
syndicate.
  U.S., EUROPE  As part of the agreement, Boeing will cooperate in helping 
Russian planemaker Sukhoi develop a mid-range passenger jet.  "This represents a modest step for increasing or improving 
that involvement," Carson said.  The Aeroflot order has been the subject of intense 
speculation amid chilly ties with Washington and Moscow's 
failure to take a major stake in Airbus's parent, EADS 
( EAD.PA ).  Russia last year took a 5 percent stake in EADS through 
state-controlled bank VTB ( VTBRq.L ), but wishes to boost the 
stake were politely rebuffed. France and Germany are the main 
shareholders in EADS.  Concerns over the Boeing order grew last year, when 
Washington imposed sanctions on Russian arms firms, including 
Rosoboronexport, because of sales to Iran and Syria.  Rosoboronexport, headed by a former colleague of President 
Vladimir Putin's, controls VSMPO-Avisma, the world's largest 
supplier of titanium products to the aerospace industry, 
including Boeing and Airbus.  Aeroflot's top competitor in Russia, S7, formerly Sibir 
airlines, last week signed a deal for 15 Dreamliners with the 
first deliveries expected by 2014.  Aeroflot is keen to buy as many foreign planes as possible 
to retire its old Soviet fleet and is seeking to expand in 
Europe by acquisitions.  Okulov confirmed Aeroflot had bid for Serbian flag carrier 
JAT Airways. Aeroflot is also in a bidding contest for Italy's 
Alitalia AZPIa.MI together with bank Unicredit ( CRDI.MI ).