-- UPDATE 3-Bid talk propels Barclays shares higher-traders
-- 
-- Thu Dec 7, 2006 10:46am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/07/barclays-takeover-idUSL0793221320061207

 

  (Adds details, updates shares paras 2-3, 9-11) 

  By Michael Taylor and  Steve Slater LONDON  Dec 7 (Reuters) - Shares in Barclays ( BARC.L ) surged
over 4 percent towards their record high on Thursday as traders
said talk returned that Spanish or U.S. banks were casting an
acquisitive eye on Britain's third-biggest bank.  By 1520 GMT Barclays shares were up 3.4 percent at 710
pence, valuing the bank at over 46 billion pounds ($90 billion).  The shares hit a peak of 719 pence, not far from October's
all-time high of 732-1/2p. Volume of over 64 million shares was
already more than double the daily average.  Spain's BBVA ( BBVA.MC ) and Banco Santander ( SAN.MC ) and Bank
of America ( BAC.N ) were rumoured as possible buyers, according
to several dealers. All have been linked with Barclays before.  "Could it happen? Yes. Is it likely? Probably not. But the
type of market we're in at the moment everybody is very jumpy
about anything that might have a bid story to it," said Colin
Morton, fund manager at Rensburg Fund Management.  A spate of recent takeovers of big UK companies continued on
Thursday when tobacco company Gallaher GLH.L said it received
an approach, sending its shares 20 percent higher.  "We've had Gallaher this morning and people are scared not
to be owning these bid stories just in case something happens,"
said Morton, who owns shares in Barclays.  
  BARCLAYS TARGET?  Barclays declined to comment, as did BBVA and Bank of
America. Santander could not be reached, though bankers said a
Santander approach was less likely as it would face regulatory
hurdles as it already owns Abbey in Britain.  Bank of America Chief Executive Kenneth Lewis has said
Europe may offer the best value for growth outside the United
States.   In a recent appearance on CNBC television, he declined to
comment on frequent market rumours that the bank might buy
Barclays, but he has said the bank has "no strategic imperative"
to make an acquisition.   BBVA said last week it had no current takeover plans beyond
deals already in progress after speculation it was considering
more acquisitions was sparked by a 3-billion-euro fundraising.  Lloyds TSB ( LLOY.L ), another bank often rumoured as a
takeover target, was enlivened by the speculation and other
banks also followed the move. Shares in Lloyds, Royal Bank of
Scotland ( RBS.L ), HBOS HBOS.L and Standard Chartered ( STAN.L )
were all up.  Dealers said bullish comments from RBS on Wednesday, when
its said it should beat 2006 earnings expectations, also helped
the sector's tone.  Analysts said Barclays' size meant only a handful of banks
could afford it, although it was an attractive target and its
diverse businesses meant a buyer could make cost savings in
areas other than UK retail banking.  The core UK retail banking business has underperformed in
recent years, but investment bank Barclays Capital, fund
management business Barclays Global Investors and Wealth
Management unit have all grown strongly.  BarCap, which accounted for a third of group profits in the
first half of 2006, remains confident of strong future growth.  Barclays shares trade at just under 10 times next year's
expected earnings, compared to about 11 times for the European
sector, according to Reuters data.  "At the current price Barclays is good value anyway, even
without a bid story," Morton said, adding that this meant a
buyer could have to pay a 30-40 percent premium for a deal. "I'd
be amazed if it went for less than 950p or 10 pounds a share,"
he said.  (Additional reporting by Sonya Dowsett in Madrid and Dan
Wilchins in New York)



