-- Airline chiefs press Congress on USAir merger bid
-- By  John Crawley
-- Wed Dec 6, 2006 7:52pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/07/businesspro-delta-usair-merger-dc-idUSN0633534320061207

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - Chief executives of Delta Air Lines 
Inc. DALRQ.PK and US Airways Group Inc. ( LCC.N ) pressed 
Congress on Wednesday on their opposing views on merging their 
companies, congressional officials said. 

  Doug Parker of US Airways met with incoming Democratic 
House Transportation Committee Chairman James Oberstar, who 
also held discussions with Gerald Grinstein of Delta about US 
Airway's $8.6 billion hostile bid.  "These are confidential, informational meetings, to enable 
me to understand the nature of the US Airways merger proposal. 
No decisions were made, none were expected," Oberstar said 
through a spokesman.  The Minnesota Democrat has said he may hold hearings if the 
two sides agree to merge.  Opposition by key lawmakers, concerned about shrinking 
competition and the impact of mergers on consumers, helped 
scuttle the proposed marriage of US Airways and United Airlines 
in 2001.  Delta opposes the bid by the smaller US Airways, which 
reached out to its bankrupt rival's creditors last month with 
the surprise offer.  US Airways said it has held meetings with Delta creditors 
and its management on the proposal over the past week. And 
Parker said in a statement on Wednesday that the next step for 
Delta's board and creditors committee is to formally research 
and analyze the plan.  "I am confident that they will do so. We are absolutely 
determined to take necessary steps to move the process 
forward," Parker said.  A Delta spokeswoman could not be reached for comment. But 
Atlanta-based Delta has said this week it still plans to step 
out of court protection as a stand-alone carrier in the first 
half of next year.  The carrier also has a powerful Senate ally in Georgia 
Republican Johnny Isakson.  Isakson said in an interview with Reuters that he met with 
Grinstein this week and has also discussed the US Airways 
proposal with Attorney General Alberto Gonzalez and White House 
Chief of Staff Joshua Bolten.  Isakson said he does not expect the White House to get 
involved, but he said that he expressed concern to Gonzalez 
about overlapping routes and a potential loss of competition 
and service to small communities if the merger moved forward. 
Isakson said he would also reach out to relevant committee 
chairmen for commerce and judiciary affairs.  "They've paid a tremendous price and they're ready to 
exit," Isakson said of Delta's intention to leave bankruptcy on 
its own.  Antitrust experts say the merger bid, if Delta agrees to 
it, would receive close antitrust scrutiny. Delta plans to 
submit its own reorganization plan to creditors this month.  Delta's pilots' union on Tuesday "denounced" the bid, 
saying a US Airways presentation about the offer last week 
revealed significant conflicts with their contract.  The Air Line Pilots Association is on the nine-member 
official committee of Delta's unsecured creditors.  (Additional reporting by  Paritosh Bansal  in Washington)