-- Google begins limited test of radio advertising
-- By  Eric Auchard
-- Thu Dec 7, 2006 6:59pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/07/businesspro-google-radio-dc-idUSN0728125520061207

 

 SAN FRANCISCO  (Reuters) - Google Inc. ( GOOG.O ) said on 
Thursday it has completed the development of its widely 
anticipated radio advertising system and begun a limited test 
allowing customers to buy ads via its online ad-buying system. 

  In a statement on the Web search leader's site, the company 
said it had begun testing a system it acquired by purchasing 
dMarc Broadcasting in early 2006 for $102 million and which it 
subsequently built into its existing AdWords online ad system.  Google Audio Ads is working with more than 700 radio 
stations covering more than 200 metropolitan U.S. markets, 
Google spokesman Mike Mayzel said.  "We're happy to announce that the integration is now 
complete and we've recently begun a U.S. beta test of Google 
Audio Ads with a small group of AdWords advertisers," Google 
said in a statement on its official advertising blog.  RBC Capital Markets radio industry analyst David Bank said 
the test was a first step in a major undertaking by Google.  "What everybody's expecting is that Google will get 
involved with a big radio player on a wider scale," Bank said, 
adding that is talking with a number of major radio operators.  Analysts expect Google Audio Ads to shake up the $20 
billion annual U.S. radio advertising industry by offering a 
simplified Web-based purchasing process for radio ads to its 
existing base of hundreds of thousands of text advertisers.  One executive at a big radio company said last month the 
industry was moving cautiously in its dealings with Google.  Bank concurred, saying: "There's a real mixed emotion among 
radio operators."  On the one hand, Google's entry may turn radio advertising 
into more of a commodity.  "A disaster could occur if people who were buying spots 
offline started buying online at a lower pricing level," Bank 
said.  But by helping turn its vast audience of Web search 
advertising buyers into radio ad buyers, Google may eventually 
prove to be a boon for the industry, he noted.  "What Google gets is a dual revenue stream on top of 
search. They're not in the radio advertising business. They may 
also use it to sell search to local radio customers," he said.  Google may offer radio operators a large upfront financial 
guarantee to sell air time inventory to mitigate their risks.  "Audio Ads offers detailed reporting, targeting by 
demographic, location and station type, and provides easy 
access to the huge market reached by radio programming," Google 
said in discussing the project on its AdWords sales site.  The AdWords purchasing system allows customers to track how 
much is spent on each radio ad, when and where the ad airs.  Google is inviting a small set of selected advertisers to 
join the current test program. The company said it had not set 
a date for when its radio advertising service will become more 
widely available to advertisers.  Google is seeking to expand beyond the pay-per-click Web 
search advertising market it dominates to offer advertising 
across a range of traditional and new media formats ranging 
from newspapers to online video.  (Additional reporting by  Susan Zeidler  in Los Angeles)