-- Home Depot says some option grants backdated
-- 
-- Wed Dec 6, 2006 7:56pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/07/businesspro-homedepot-stockoptions-dc-idUSWEN083320061207

 

 ATLANTA  (Reuters) - Home Depot Inc. said on Wednesday it 
had unrecorded expenses of about $200 million from errors tied 
to stock option grants, but correcting the problem would have 
no material effect on financial statements. 

  The largest home improvement retailer in the world said 
that fixing the errors was expected to decrease retained 
earnings by the same amount.  Home Depot ( HD.N ) disclosed in June that the U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had launched an 
inquiry into its stock option practices. The U.S. Attorney for 
the Southern District of New York has also requested 
information, and Home Depot said it was cooperating with both.  Stock option grant dates have come under the scrutiny of 
the SEC and the Department of Justice. Some 160 companies have 
been probed by the agencies or are conducting their own 
inquiries.  The retailer's independent review, covering its 26 years as 
a public company and conducted by the audit committee with 
outside counsel, concluded that there was no intentional 
wrongdoing by any current member of the management team or 
board.  But Home Depot said the investigation found that, for 
annual stock option grants and certain quarterly grants from 
1981 through November 2000, the stated grant date was earlier 
than the actual time the grants were approved.  The company said that in almost every instance during that 
time frame, the stock price on the apparent approval date was 
higher than the price on the grant date.  "Management personnel, who have since left the company, 
generally followed a practice of reviewing closing prices for a 
prior period and selecting a date with a low stock price to 
increase the value of the options," Home Depot said in a 
statement.  The retailer added that stock options given from 2002 to 
the present had exercise prices based on the company's stock 
price on the date the grant was approved.  Atlanta-based Home Depot reported earnings of $5.8 billion 
on sales of $81.5 billion for its most recent fiscal year. The 
company last month cut its profit growth forecast for the 
current year, citing the weaker U.S. housing market.  The retailer disclosed the findings of the probe after 
markets closed. Its shares closed up 55 cents, or 1.4 percent, 
at $39.92 on the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday.