-- Reckson shareholders OK SL Green's $4 bln takeover
-- 
-- Thu Dec 7, 2006 6:14pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/07/businesspro-slgreen-reckson-merger-dc-idUSN0730402420061207

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Reckson Associates Realty Corp. RA.N 
shareholders approved a near-$4-billion takeover by SL Green 
Realty Corp. ( SLG.N ), but billionaire investor Carl Icahn, who 
had made his own Reckson bid, hinted he would not abandon his 
fight for some office buildings included the deal. 

  Thursday's vote followed two days of haggling and 
inconclusive ballot counting, as well as last-minute 
maneuvering by Icahn and Manhattan developer and office owner 
Harry Macklowe.  Earlier in the day, one of Reckson's largest shareholders, 
Cohen & Steers ( CNS.N ), said it was in full support of the deal 
after the companies said SL Green has consented to Reckson 
declaring an additional special dividend of 29 cents per share.  The deal contains an agreement where a management group led 
by Reckson Chief Executive Scott Rechler and Marathon Asset 
Management would acquire suburban New York properties from 
Green for $2.1 billion after the deal closes.  Icahn said he made a last-minute bid for some of the 
suburban New York properties -- office properties in 
Westchester County -- for $125 million more than the 
management-led group was offering.  Reckson said it could not consider the offer, saying its 
agreement with SL Green would only allow it to consider offers 
superior to the entire deal.  Icahn said the Rechler-led group had a fiduciary obligation 
to take the offer and hinted that the battle may not be over.  In an interview, Icahn said he "reminded Rechler of his 
fiduciary responsibility" to Reckson shareholders.  Further muddying the waters, Macklowe, who recently dropped 
out of the Icahn bidding group, had been considering bidding 
for certain Reckson properties in New York City as soon as this 
week, a Macklowe spokesman said.  "In light of today's development, they have decided not to 
bid," the spokesman said, declining to elaborate.  A person close to the matter said Macklowe decided not to 
bid because of Reckson's declaration of a $25-million special 
dividend for its shareholders.  Reckson shares lost 5 cents to $45.65 on the New York Stock 
Exchange. SL Green gained $1.67 or 1.3 percent to $134.24, 
while Cohen & Steers was down 55 cents at $38.44.