-- Wall St. seen posting strong quarter, record year
-- By  Joseph A. Giannone
-- Thu Dec 7, 2006 3:48pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/07/businesspro-wallstreet-outlook-dc-idUSN0637930220061207

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Four of the biggest U.S. investment 
banks are poised to report strong fourth-quarter earnings, 
capping a fourth straight record year as nearly every business 
runs at full speed. 

  These are the best of times on Wall Street, where record 
merger and acquisitions, rising demand for stock and debt 
financing and investment gains are joined by persistent trading 
strength.  Starting next week Goldman Sachs Group Inc.( GS.N ), Lehman 
Brothers Holdings Inc. LEH.N, Bear Stearns Cos. BSC.N and 
Morgan Stanley ( MS.N ) are expected to report an average 41 
percent increase in fourth quarter profit, according to Reuters 
Estimates. Average return on equity will approach 24 percent.  "Strength in fixed-income issuance, M&A, private equity, 
international and U.S. equity issuance, and positively trending 
equity markets should make the fourth-quarter one of the 
strongest quarters on record," said Wachovia Securities analyst 
Doug Sipkin.  For the year, these four are expected to clear more than 
$22 billion in profit, on par with the gross domestic product 
of Lebanon or Sri Lanka.  Analysts have been scrambling to raise their forecasts 
recently. Merrill Lynch analyst Guy Moszkowski says stock 
underwriting rose 61 percent from the third quarter, while IPO 
activity doubled. The M&A and leverage buyout boom also has 
been good for debt underwriting, fueling demand for leverage 
loans and high-yield bonds.  And analysts say the good times will roll on. The pipeline 
of fees from pending M&A transactions is at a record level, 
exceeding $9 billion for the industry.  The economy worldwide remains healthy and Wall Street firms 
continue to expand in Europe and Asia, where fast growing 
markets comprise a bigger piece of overall results. Low 
interest rates, meanwhile, are fueling the wave of leveraged 
buyouts and debt issuance, analysts said.  Trading profits are also expected to rebound from a weak 
summer quarter, with improvement in mortgages offset by a 
decline in corporate bond markets and less price volatility.
  GOLDMAN LEADS  Goldman, the most profitable Wall Street bank, on Tuesday 
is expected to report net income of $6.36 a share for the 
fiscal period that ended in November, up 90 percent from last 
year. Much of the increase stems from gains on investments in 
Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd ( 1398.HK ) and from 
Japanese golf courses, plus higher M&A and trading income.  Lehman Brothers on Thursday is expected to earn $1.73 a 
share, up 25 percent, driven by trading and investment banking 
fees, offset in part by higher compensation costs. On the same 
day, Bear Stearns is seen reporting a 30 percent increase in 
net income to $3.76 a share on higher debt and stock activity, 
although M&A activity slipped.  Morgan Stanley, which reports on December 19, eked out a 7 
percent increase on solid trading and M&A fee gains, offset by 
higher credit costs at Discover and increased expenses. The 
diversified securities, credit cards and brokerage company is 
still in the early stages of a turnaround.  Analysts continue to debate whether brokerage stocks are 
too expensive. On average, the big firms are trading at 2.35 
times book value, 13 percent above their five-year average.  That said, Wall Street has beat expectations for years now, 
surprising naysayers who argued that a slowing U.S. housing 
market and rising interest rates would slow trading profit. As 
a result, most analysts say the big banks should continue to 
benefit from a strong economy and healthy stock markets.  "The good news is that near term return on equity should 
come in at 25 percent or higher the next two quarters, 
supporting near-term multiples and allow some room for upside," 
Banc of America Securities analyst Michael Hecht said.