-- News Corp., Liberty Media deal seen next week: source
-- By  Kenneth Li
-- Thu Dec 7, 2006 2:40pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/07/businesspro-newscorp-libertymedia-direct-idUSN0723905320061207

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - News Corp. NWSa.N could finalize a 
deal "as early as next week" to swap its controlling interest 
in DirecTV Group Inc. DTV.N and other assets for Liberty 
Media's LCAPA.O $11 billion stake in News Corp., a source 
familiar with the matter said on Thursday. 

  Rupert Murdoch, chairman and chief executive of News Corp., 
and Liberty Media Chairman John Malone reached a private 
agreement this week, the source said.  News Corp. would trade its 38.6 percent controlling 
interest in the top U.S. satellite television provider and 
three regional sports networks. News Corp. has also agreed to 
pay $550 million in cash, the source said, confirming a report 
in the New York Times.  The deal, if completed, secures Murdoch's control over the 
global media empire he has built from a single newspaper in 
Adelaide, Australia. Murdoch, 75, currently controls about 30 
percent of News Corp.'s voting shares.  For Malone, 65, whose three-decade rein atop the cable 
television industry ended with the divestiture of his 
TeleCommunications Inc. in the late 1990s, the deal signals a 
return to the U.S. media big leagues.  News Corp. declined comment. A Liberty Media spokesman was 
not immediately reachable.  "For News Corp. this a significant positive as they 
accomplish a tax-free exit from an asset that contributed no 
free cash flow and whose long-term prospects are eroding 
rapidly," said Pali Research analyst Richard Greenfield.  "At the same time (News Corp. could) buy back $11 billion 
of stock with almost no impact on their leverage leaving 
significant capacity for future open market share repurchases," 
he added.  The agreement would end two years of on-and-off 
negotiations that pitted the once-close associates against each 
other. Liberty Media quietly boosted its stake in News Corp. in 
2004, which made Malone's company the second-largest 
shareholder, a move that spooked Murdoch.  Fearing a hostile takeover, Murdoch enacted an emergency 
poison pill to make such aggressions prohibitively costly.  Since then, the two have bickered over the most 
tax-efficient transaction to return those shares back to News 
Corp. The source said Liberty is expected to save about $2 
billion in capital gains and News Corp. will save over $1 
billion.  The current deal, which is expected to be finalized by 
lawyers as early as next week, will add about 8 cents per share 
to News Corp.'s fiscal 2008, according to Pali's Greenfield.  The deal values DirecTV at a 12 percent discount to 
Wednesday's closing price of $23.53 on the New York Stock 
Exchange, according to Greenfield.  Speculation over a deal involving Murdoch's hard-won stake 
in DirecTV has sent shares of DirecTV up 20 percent since 
reports first surfaced, that inflated the value of the company 
and was the source of contention between the negotiators, the 
Wall Street Journal reported, citing unnamed sources.  Liberty Media Chief Executive Greg Maffei said on Wednesday 
at the UBS media conference that owning a big U.S. satellite TV 
provider would provide the distribution muscle for its existing 
cable networks QVC shopping network and the Starz Entertainment 
Group that it lost with the sale of TCI.  Liberty Media "could potentially use DirecTV as a 
competitive threat to cable operators to coerce carriage by 
cable on more attractive terms," Sanford C. Bernstein analyst 
Craig Moffett wrote in a research report.  With DirecTV, however, Malone would also inherit the 
technology's inherent deficiencies. Unlike cable or telephone 
networks, satellite TV services have been unable to offer high 
speed Internet services without striking marketing partnerships 
with phone companies.  Being able to sell "triple-play" packages of services that 
include TV, digital phone and broadband, has been immensely 
profitable for cable operators Comcast Corp. ( CMCSA.O ) and Time 
Warner Inc.'s ( TWX.N ) cable system.  On Wednesday, Maffei hinted that a Liberty-controlled 
DirecTV would employ a range of broadband partners, including 
from its own portfolio of investments in rural market satellite 
broadband service WildBlue, to offer DirecTV subscribers.  News Corp. class A shares rose 92 cents, or 4.42 percent, 
to $21.74; DirecTV shares fell 3 cents to $23.50 on the New 
York Stock Exchange. Liberty Capital shares rose $2.70, or 3 
percent, to $90.63 on Nasdaq in afternoon trading.