-- Gallaher approached, Japan Tobacco likely bidder-source
-- By  Edwina Gibbs  and  David Jones
-- Wed Dec 6, 2006 9:05pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/07/businesspro-gallaher-approach-dc-idUSSP2274120061207

 

 TOKYO/LONDON  (Reuters) - British tobacco company Gallaher 
Group Plc. said on Wednesday it had received a takeover 
approach, with sources close to the situation saying the 
potential bidder was likely to be Japan Tobacco Inc. 

  Japan Tobacco shares shot up 6 percent on the news on 
Thursday. The company declined to comment on what it called 
market speculation.  Gallaher, the maker of cigarette brands such as Benson & 
Hedges, Silk Cut and Mayfair in Britain, has long been subject 
to takeover rumors, and put out a statement after a surge in 
its share price on Tuesday.  Shares in Gallaher closed 0.8 percent lower at 979 pence on 
Wednesday, valuing the group at around 6.4 billion pounds 
($12.6 billion). The shares had risen 3.1 percent, or 29-1/2p, 
to 986-1/2p on Tuesday.  Japan Tobacco shares rose 6.3 percent to 537,000 yen, just 
shy of its year-to-date high of 538,000.  Japan Tobacco, the world's third-largest tobacco group and 
known for its Camel, Winston, Salem and Mild Seven brands, has 
been keen to grow its international side ever since it bought 
the non-U.S. tobacco business of RJR Nabisco for $7.8 billion 
in 1999.  "The company confirms that it has recently received an 
approach which may or may not lead to an offer. The approach is 
preliminary and there can be no assurance that any offer will 
be made," Gallaher said in a statement late on Wednesday after 
the London stock market had closed.  Gallaher declined further comment.  Analysts said only the world's three biggest tobacco groups 
-- Altria Group Inc, British American Tobacco Plc. and Japan 
Tobacco -- could fund a bid, but Altria would face anti-trust 
problems in many markets and BAT has in the past distanced 
itself from a bid for Gallaher.  Altria, which owns Philip Morris and the Marlboro brand, 
and BAT both declined to comment.  Gallaher, the world's fifth-largest cigarette group, earns 
70 percent of its profits from the shrinking cigarette markets 
of Britain, Ireland, Austria and Sweden. To offset this fall it 
has been expanding into Russia, where it owns the 
Liggett-Ducat, Kazakhstan and Ukraine brans, and earnings there 
have risen sharply.  Japan Tobacco, still 50 percent owned by the Japanese 
government, said in 2005 its international cigarette volumes 
overtook its domestic Japanese volumes for the first time.  In late June, Hiroshi Kimura took over as chief executive 
officer and president, and since he had spent the last seven 
years leading its Geneva-based international division, this 
further fueled speculation it was looking for acquisitions.