-- Slowdown ahead for U.S. manufacturers: study
-- By  Scott Malone
-- Thu Dec 7, 2006 1:30pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/07/businesspro-usa-economy-manufacturing-dc-idUSN0724847920061207

 

 BOSTON  (Reuters) - U.S. manufacturers expect the economy to 
slow in 2007, as the weakening housing market continues to take 
a toll on business, according to data released on Thursday. 

  U.S. industrial production is on pace to rise 2.6 percent 
next year, a pronounced slowdown from the 4.8 percent growth 
expected this year, according to a quarterly analysis by the 
Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI, an Arlington, Virginia-based trade 
group.  That outlook reflected comments on Thursday by the top 
executive of heavy equipment maker Caterpillar Inc. ( CAT.N )  "We're going to have a slowdown in economic growth in the 
United States in 2007, no question," said Jim Owens, the 
company's chairman and chief executive officer. "Probably for 
the first time in the last 15 years, the United States is going 
to grow slower than most of the rest of the world."  He said he expected the economies of many European and 
Asian nations to remain more robust.  Caterpillar, a leading maker of construction equipment, has 
seen its sales roughly double to $40 billion over the past four 
year, fueled by a boom of construction in the United States and 
abroad. Its shares are part of the Dow Jones industrial average 
 .DJI , a widely watched barometer of the U.S. economy that's 
been hitting record highs in recent weeks.  Concerns about the direction of the U.S. economy have 
picked up this year as high energy prices have raised costs for 
major manufacturers. At the same time, the slowing U.S. housing 
market has crimped consumer spending.  Daniel Meckstroth, chief economist at MAPI, said the oil 
and gas sector, where investment has been driven by high fuel 
prices, is the one segment of the U.S. manufacturing sector 
expected to report double-digit growth next year.  He said MAPI expects production of construction equipment 
and engine, turbines and power equipment to decline.  "The industrial sector is undergoing a mid-cycle 
correction, not unlike the correction that occurred in 1995," 
Meckstroth said. "There is a pronounced slowing in the consumer 
side of the economy, production adjustments in some capital 
equipment industries ... and an inventory correction is in the 
works."  MAPI expects U.S. industrial production to rise to 3.4 
percent growth in 2008.  Investors will be keeping a close eye on the 2007 outlook 
heading into next week, when a lineup of several of the 
nation's largest and most diversified companies are scheduled 
to spell out their financial expectations for the coming year.  General Electric Co. ( GE.N ), United Technologies Corp. 
( UTX.N ) and Honeywell International Inc. ( HON.N ) are expected 
to set their 2007 financial targets.