-- Fannie Mae to report 2005 earnings by September
-- By Patrick Rucker and  Lynn Adler
-- Thu Dec 7, 2006 5:43pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/07/businesspro-fanniemae-dc-idUSN0722955920061207

 

 WASHINGTON/NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Fannie MaeFNM.N, the top 
U.S. mortgage-finance company that is trying to move on from 
one of the nation's largest accounting scandals, will deliver a 
long-overdue report on its 2005 earnings by next September, the 
company's chief executive said on Thursday. 

  Speaking on a conference call with investors one day after 
the company restated past earnings by $6.3 billion, Fannie Mae 
Chief Executive Officer Daniel Mudd said, "Results for 2005 
will come out in a single-digit number of months.  "We're going to focus on catching up and getting current as 
soon as possible," he said. That includes "restoring a 
competitive dividend," Mudd added.  The company has been working to restore the confidence of 
investors and regulators since it uncovered accounting 
irregularities that dressed up earnings during the housing 
boom. Regulators, meanwhile, said they would go ahead with an 
anticipated civil lawsuit against deposed Fannie Mae executives 
responsible for the deceptive financial reports.  "They're on a boat that's moving quite well down the 
river," said Ed Groshans, analyst at Fox-Pitt, Kelton in New 
York.  "The restatement news is overall very good," he added. 
"They did it on time, the amount of loss that they originally 
expected turned out to be significantly less. ... And they 
lifted the dividend and there's an expectation that there's 
room to lift that dividend going forward."  Fannie Mae shares closed up 1.9 percent at $59.61 on 
Thursday.  The company boosted its dividend by 54 percent to 40 cents 
a share. Fannie Mae in early 2005 had slashed its pay-out in 
half to 26 cents.  On Wednesday, Fannie Mae reported a smaller-than-expected 
$7.9 billion loss on investments held through the end of 2004. 
Regulators had demanded that Fannie perform the restatement 
after discovering gross accounting errors. The company at one 
time had expected those losses would top $10.5 billion.  Meanwhile, the company's top regulator said it plans to 
file a lawsuit by year-end against former Fannie Mae 
executives, including one-time CEO Franklin Raines, in 
connection with past accounting irregularities.  James Lockhart, the chief of regulator the Office of 
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, said in an interview on 
CNBC on Thursday that the suits should come in a matter of 
weeks to recover "ill-gotten gains" from executives. Lockhart 
has previously said the executives should return compensation 
that was tied to hitting earnings targets based on improper 
accounting.  During the investor conference call, Mudd call the 
restatement a "critical milestone" and "monumental task."  Fannie Mae Chief Financial Officer Robert Blakely said the 
company expects to spend $1.05 billion on restatement work in 
2007 -- the same amount as it will spend this year -- but that 
overall business costs will be higher.  "Given the remediation efforts" undertaken by Fannie Mae, 
"we would expect the expense structure would be higher than 
periods prior to the restatement," Blakely said on the call.  These are "significant but unavoidable costs," he said.  Also on Thursday, a former Fannie employee claimed the 
company ignored improper bookkeeping in its earnings 
restatement, which covered the period from 2001 through 
mid-2004.  Thomas Inman, who worked on Fannie's accounting team, said 
the company mishandled a $50 million accounting error he 
identified early this year.  "I was uncovering things that were totally unexpected to 
management," Inman said.  Inman has filed a complaint with the Labor Department under 
a whistle-blower provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley law, said his 
attorney Michael Kohn.  Fannie Mae said in a statement that the accounting flaws 
Inman discovered were all handled properly and that he was 
terminated last spring due to "poor performance."  (Additional reporting by  Al Yoon )