-- UPDATE 3-Pathmark loss narrower than expected, shares rise
-- 
-- Thu Dec 7, 2006 4:31pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/07/pathmark-results-idUSN0719258920061207

 

  (Adds comments from call, background, updates stock activity) 

 CHICAGO  Dec 7 (Reuters) - Grocer Pathmark Stores Inc.
PTMK.O posted a narrower-than-expected third quarter net loss
on Thursday, as better expense control and improved gross
margins offset higher costs for workers' compensation and
general liability claims.  During a conference call with analysts and investors,
executives declined to comment when asked whether Pathmark
would merge with a competitor such as Great Atlantic & Pacific
Tea Co. Inc. GAP.N, the grocer known as A&P.  Pathmark has been rumored as a possible target or merger
candidate for years as it faced increased competition from
larger rivals and the growth of food sales at discount stores
such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. ( WMT.N ). In 2005, Yucaipa Cos.,
the private equity firm owned by billionaire grocery magnate
Ronald Burkle, took a stake in Pathmark.  LOSS NARROWS  Pathmark's net loss narrowed to $5.8 million, or 11 cents a
share, in the third quarter, ended on Oct. 28, from $18.3
million, or 36 cents a share, a year earlier.  Three analysts surveyed by Reuters Estimates had on average
forecast a loss of 17 cents per share from the Carteret, New
Jersey, company.  Sales for the quarter fell slightly to $978.1 million from
$980.5 million a year ago on flat sales at stores open at least
a year.  Pathmark said that sales picked up after a weak Labor Day,
when it was pressured by bad weather, and that momentum
continued into the current fourth quarter, with "very good"
sales around the Thanksgiving holiday.  Pathmark, which operates 141 supermarkets in New York, New
Jersey and the Philadelphia area, has been spending money to
add new merchandise and improve the appearance of its stores.  Last month, it signed a deal to sell products from natural
and organic grocer Wild Oats Markets Inc. OATS.O in its
stores in an effort to satisfy demand for healthier fare.
Yucaipa also has a stake in Wild Oats.  Pathmark said it is in the final stages of working a
prototype for a newly-designed store, and anticipates opening
the first store under that format late next year.  It said it has not yet seen much of an impact from rival
Ahold NV's ( AHLN.AS ) Stop & Shop cutting prices on produce and
household items such as paper towels.  Pathmark plans to spend about $70 million on capital
expenditures this year and said it would discuss capital
expenditure plans for fiscal 2007 sometime in late January.  The company spent $59.8 million and renovated 13 stores in
the first nine months of the year and plans to renovate one
more store during the fourth quarter.  Shares of Pathmark closed up 12 cents at $10.91 after
rising as high as $11.40 in Nasdaq trade earlier in the day.
 (Additional reporting by  Martinne Geller  and Christopher
Kaufman in New York)



