-- GM still faces risks after landmark union deal
-- By  Poornima Gupta  and  David Bailey
-- Thu Sep 27, 2007 4:21pm EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/09/27/businesspro-gm-uaw-risks-dc-idUSN2733499720070927

 

 DETROIT  (Reuters) - General Motors Corp ( GM.N ) struck a 
groundbreaking agreement with the United Auto Workers union on 
Wednesday, ending a two-day strike, but the automaker still 
faces a number of hurdles to complete the deal. 

  The four-year agreement -- which creates a health-care 
trust fund that will reduce the automaker's expenses and lets 
GM hire new workers at lower costs -- has to be ratified by a 
majority of its 73,000 UAW-represented workers.  Setting up health-care trusts can also take months, or 
years, with a mandatory federal court review and possible 
challenges from retirees who see guarantees of lifetime 
coverage at risk from spiraling health care costs.  GM has said the proposed trust covering $50 billion of 
liabilities will require an accounting review by federal 
regulators, suggesting a complex financial arrangement.  But the initial hurdle for the No. 1 U.S. automaker is to 
get the deal approved by its workers.  The UAW has asked its local unit leaders to gather in 
Detroit on Friday to review the details of the tentative 
contract, which is likely to be put to vote as early as this 
weekend.  While analysts said the contract was likely to receive an 
easy majority from GM workers, many dissident workers are 
already rallying against it.  Todd Jordan, a member of UAW Local 292 in Kokomo, Indiana, 
asked workers to vote "no" in a message on the 
www.futureoftheunion.com Web site created by union dissidents. 
He compared the tentative agreement with a massive cost-cutting 
deal Delphi Corp DPHIQ.PK managed to wring out of the UAW 
while in bankruptcy.  Even if the deal is ratified, dissident union members or 
retirees could file a lawsuit against GM and the UAW as they 
did over a mid-contract health care deal just two years ago.  Retirees filed class-action lawsuits against GM and Ford 
Motor Co ( F.N ) over a 2005 mid-contract health-care 
cost-cutting deal with the UAW that was narrowly ratified by 
the rank-and-file. The automakers settled those cases, locking 
them into health care deals until 2011.  Gregg Shotwell, a GM veteran and well-known UAW gadfly from 
Grand Rapids, Michigan, said he opposes the new trust fund and 
a two-tier wage system and expects retirees to mount a legal 
challenge to the trust if the contract is ratified.  "Unions are supposed to be about solidarity, but this is 
discrimination against an entire class and that class is the 
next generation," Shotwell said in an interview.  The shifting of GM's retiree health-care costs to a 
UAW-administered trust fund known as a Voluntary Employee 
Beneficiary Association, or VEBA is considered the major 
highlight of the new deal.  "By eliminating $50 billion in liabilities and $3.3 billion 
annually in payments, GM will dramatically improve its cash 
flow, its balance sheet, its earnings-per-share, and a host of 
other metrics," Global Insight automotive industry analyst 
Aaron Bragman said.  But the VEBA, which is likely to be duplicated at Ford and 
Chrysler LLC., could take months or even years to set up as it 
needs court approval and a review by the U.S. Securities and 
Exchange Commission for accounting treatment.  Brian Johnson, analyst with Lehman Brothers, said the 
VEBA's benefit to GM's earnings "would largely depend on the 
accounting treatment used to compute savings in healthcare 
expense."  The VEBA trust at Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co GT.N, which 
is seen as the template, is still months from completion 
despite being agreed on in 2006 as a federal court case is 
still pending.  And a trust between the UAW and Caterpillar Inc ( CAT.N ) 
struck in 1998 was almost depleted within six years, leaving 
disgruntled retirees facing higher costs.  Larry Solomon, a former UAW local president who retired 
from Caterpillar in 1998, has seen his health care premiums 
rise to more than $200 per month and remains skeptical of the 
trusts.  "I think it's a bad way to go, the best evidence is the 
results and we will soon see the results for those who buy into 
it and where they end up," Solomon said.  (Additional reporting by  Nick Carey , editing by Tim Dobbyn)