-- Marriott says to quadruple hotels in China
-- 
-- Thu Sep 27, 2007 1:48am EDT
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2007/09/27/businesspro-marriott-china-expansion-dc-idUSPEK5133120070927

 

 SHANGHAI  (Reuters) - Hotel operator Marriott International 
Inc MAR.N said it planned to quadruple its hotels in China to 
100 in the next five to six years to tap growing demand for 
tourism and business. 

  The U.S.-based company aims to expand to 48 hotels in China 
by 2010 from 25 now, chairman J.W. Marriott told reporters in 
Shanghai on Thursday. In addition, 32 hotels are under 
development.  "In five to six years, we plan to have over 100 hotels in 
China," he said.  Demand for hotels is very strong because of inbound tourism 
and increasing travel by China's middle class, said Geoff 
Garside, vice president in charge of the Asia-Pacific region.  Marriott is expanding from China's biggest cities such as 
Beijing and Shanghai to smaller, second-tier cities such as 
Wuxi and Wuhan to meet rising demand there, Garside said.  China is a focus for international players such as 
InterContinental Hotels ( IHG.L ), Hilton Hotels HLT.N, 
Shangri-La ( 0069.HK ) and Accor ( ACCP.PA ).  They are competing for travelers in a market that is 
expected to become the world's second biggest in 10 years, from 
the sixth biggest at present, according to estimates by the 
World Travel & Tourism Council.  Last week Accor, Europe's largest hotelier, said it had 
raised its hotel expansion plans for China, aiming to open or 
start developing more than 180 hotels by 2010.  Accor currently owns 50 hotels in China, including high-end 
Sofitel and Novotel hotels as well as its Ibis budget chain.  Shangri-La, Asia's biggest listed hotel chain controlled by 
billionaire Robert Kuok, said in July it planned to raise at 
least HK$5.17 billion (US$662 million) via a rights issue to 
fund expansion in China, where it runs 19 hotels.  Chairman Marriott, who helped develop the company from a 
family business to a listed hotelier with 3,000 properties 
worldwide, said he was not worried about the risk of oversupply 
in China.  "The economy in China continues to grow and people all over 
the world travel to China," said Marriott, who was in Shanghai 
to announce the opening of a Renaissance-branded hotel.  Apart from the Renaissance brand, Marriott runs six other 
brands in China, including the high-end Ritz-Carlton and JW 
Marriott Hotels & Resorts, as well as Courtyard by Marriott for 
mid-income travelers.  To help accommodate an estimated 2 million visitors during 
the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games, Marriott plans to double its 
number of hotels in the Chinese capital to 11 next year from 
five now, Marriott said.  The company aims to boost its number of hotels in the 
Asia-Pacific region to 125 by 2010 from 78 now, and to triple 
its hotel portfolio in India by that time.