-- Automakers bank on NASCAR to keep driving sales
-- By  Ben Klayman
-- Fri Feb 15, 2008 3:35pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2008/02/15/businesspro-automakers-nascar-dc-idUSN1558665820080215

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Racing fans will have many questions 
when the NASCAR season kicks off Sunday with the Daytona 500 
race, but automakers only wonder whether the sport will retain 
its popularity and keep driving vehicle sales. 

  The millions in NASCAR nation are wondering whether fan 
favorite Dale Earnhardt Jr. can find happiness with his new 
deep-pocketed Hendrick Motorsports team, whether rival and 
teammate Jimmie Johnson can successfully defend his Sprint Cup 
Series title and what impact the bigger, boxier "Car of 
Tomorrow" design being used in every race this year will have.  For those financially linked to the National Association 
for Stock Car Auto Racing's success, however, last year's lower 
television ratings, and flat or declining attendance at many of 
the venues in the 36-race season has raised the question of 
whether the racing circuit's popularity has peaked.  For now, General Motors Corp ( GM.N ), Ford Motor Co ( F.N ), 
Chrysler LLC CBS.UL and Toyota Motor Corp ( 7203.T ) still love 
the sport's potential, increasing or maintaining NASCAR-related 
budgets that top $100 million in some cases.  "I'm not really quite sure if NASCAR has peaked, or if this 
is just an adjustment period," said Mike Accavitti, director of 
Chrysler's Dodge brand and head of motorsports.  "In the meanwhile, even where it's at, there are still 75 
(million) to 80 million NASCAR fans out there ... and being in 
the automobile business, this is exactly the types of folks we 
want to be talking to," he added.  While many major U.S. sports saw TV ratings slip, NASCAR 
was hurt more than other leagues last year by spiking gasoline 
prices, since a large number of fans drive long distances to 
attend the weekend-long events that include multiple car and 
truck races.  With a brand loyalty greater than other U.S. sports "by a 
factor of 10," according to Toyota national motorsports manager 
Les Unger, NASCAR is still enticing.  "In life, very few things, if any, continue in an 
unmitigated, uninterrupted upward slope," Unger said. "If the 
fans feel the racing is as good as, or better than, it has 
been, then Toyota as a manufacturer will be happy."  Studies by the various automakers show that fans are more 
likely to buy sponsor cars and pickup trucks -- and that, in 
the end, is what matters most.  "The old adage has always been: Win on Sunday, sell on 
Monday," said Terry Dolan, manager of racing for GM's Chevrolet 
brand.  "The No. 1 vehicle of choice of NASCAR fans is the 
full-size pickup and the highest volume vehicle at General 
Motors is the Chevrolet Silverado, so you can see a nice 
correlation between our bread-and-butter vehicle and the fan 
base of the sport," he added.  GM said its U.S. market share hovers in the mid-20 percent 
range, but jumps to more than 40 percent among NASCAR fans, 
while Ford found consideration for its products was more than 
100 percent higher among race fans.  Chrysler research shows NASCAR fans buy Dodge vehicles at a 
rate 30 percent higher than the general population.  "NASCAR fans have a propensity to buy domestic 
automobiles," says Chrysler's Accavitti. "Is it because we're 
in racing that they buy us? I can only look at the facts."  Toyota, which joined the top car series last year, doesn't 
discuss NASCAR's impact on sales, but Mark Yost, author of "The 
200 MPH Billboard: The Inside Story of How Big Money Changed 
NASCAR," said the Japanese automaker is involved not for its 
top-selling Camry sedan but to boost its Tundra pickup truck.  That's not to say that automakers don't have concerns. At 
an industry conference last month, GM Vice Chairman Bob Lutz 
gave voice to that frustration.  "Somewhere along the way, as racing become a televised 
spectacle, that thing about 'the best car and best driver wins' 
kind of got neutralized, and we introduced what I call 
socialism in racing," he said, describing the format as "the 
world wrestling federation of motorsports."  NASCAR is sensitive to the criticism.  "I'm sure there's some things the manufacturers would like 
from us a little bit more in terms of branding, but we think 
we've done a pretty good job of managing all the entities' 
interests," said NASCAR vice president of racing operations, 
Steve O'Donnell.  In the end, success on the track will leave a smile on the 
faces of automakers' executives.  "If you can win a 500-mile race at 200 miles per hour, you 
must be capable of building a vehicle with some pretty decent 
levels of (quality)," Chevy's Dolan said. "2008 will be telling 
for us."  (Reporting by Ben Klayman)  (Additional reporting by  David Bailey  in Detroit. editing 
by Gunna Dickson)