-- Defining Common Collaboration Tensions
-- Lang Davison
-- 2009-05-07T06:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2009-05-07/defining-common-collaboration-tensions.html

          
          
             Collaboration is one of those words that everybody loves and uses. At many companies, at least until the recession hit, collaboration was a mark of progressivity.  

 Popular as the word is, collaboration mostly goes undefined. A well-received global study in 2006, for instance, found that 70% of CEOs believe collaboration is crucial to their business. But the report itself lacked more than a vague definition of the term. 

 We're as guilty as the next--having used the word 16 times since we started posting here last January without ever defining it.  

 Many people, we suspect, would define collaboration as any situation where people work together in a coordinated way to achieve common objectives and would include highly specified and synchronized coordination, such as traditional assembly line operations.  

 But not all forms of collaboration are equally powerful. In a previous post we pointed to emerging examples of a  "collaboration curve"  in which the more people and interactions you add to a  carefully designed environment , the more performance improves. 

 How would we define this "scalable" form of collaboration? We'd start by exploring some inherent tensions:  

 Transactional versus Relational Collaboration:  All of us know the iconic examples of  InnoCentive  and  GoldCorp ., in which companies put forward specific problems they face and ask big groups of individuals to identify potential solutions.  Crowdsourcing  efforts like these are highly scalable, to be sure, but their transactional nature requires clearly and concisely stating both the problem and its solution. Yet in a world of  near-constant disruption  it's increasingly difficult to know what the problem is. Solutions, when found, are often in the form of experiential,  "tacit" knowledge  that's difficult to articulate. That's why relational collaboration, in which seekers and solvers build relational capital and trust during a longer period of time, is poised to become the most valuable form of collaboration: it supports the creation of and the exchange of tacit knowledge. For clues about scaling relational collaboration, see our  posting on creation spaces. 

 Loosely versus Tightly Coupled:  One objection you might reasonably raise relative to the collaboration curve is the n-squared problem, in which the expense and effort required for participants to interact in a given environment rises exponentially with the number of participants. In a pull-based creation space, loose coupling provides a way around the n-squared problem by modularizing (and standardizing the interfaces between) resources so they can be flexibly combined and recombined. This sharply contrasts with more hardwired approaches in which the activities people do and the connections between them must be redefined each time the activity or connection changes. Said differently, loosely coupled collaboration scales; tightly coupled collaboration does not. 

 Static versus Dynamic:  Some forms of collaboration assume that the task is simply to get participants to contribute existing resources or knowledge. These forms focus on coordination of static capabilities.  Other forms of collaboration take as a starting point the challenge of creating new knowledge and capabilities so that participants individually get better as a result of the collaboration. 

 Where does that leave us with regard to defining the kind of scalable collaboration that will generate collaboration curves? How about: "People and institutions getting better faster working together in flexible but enduring relationships where collective performance rapidly increases and new knowledge accumulates over time."  

 How about you? We'd love to hear how you define collaboration--even if you're doing so for the first time.  What forms of collaboration do you believe are the most powerful? 

