-- UPDATE 3-Bristol to pay $499 mln in tentative pact with US
-- 
-- Thu Dec 21, 2006 1:19pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/21/bristolmyers-settlement-idUSN2147737920061221

 

  (Adds background, updates stock price) 

 BOSTON  Dec 21 (Reuters) - Drug maker Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. ( BMY.N ) said on Thursday it would pay $499 million to
settle several investigations by the U.S. government into its
pricing, sales and marketing practices.  The company said the tentative settlement provided for a
civil resolution, and there would be no criminal charges in its
agreement in principle with the Department of Justice and the
U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts. A Bristol-Myers spokesman said the agreement covered dozens
of the company's current and divested products, including the
Abilify schizophrenia treatment.  A spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney's office in Boston
declined to comment.  Bristol-Myers has been embroiled in several government
probes in recent years.  It settled a separate probe into its accounting practices
in 2005. But it still faces a criminal investigation by the
federal government into a failed patent settlement involving
blood-clot medicine Plavix, its top product.  As a result of the agreement announced on Thursday,
Bristol-Myers has increased its reserves for the investigations
by $353 million, to a total of $499 million, a figure it will
record in the fourth quarter.  The company said it would also take a pretax charge of $220
million for previously disclosed debt restructuring, a figure
unrelated to the investigation.  As a result of the charges, the company is lowering its
2006 outlook for net earnings from continuing operations to
between 72 cents and 77 cents a share from a previous estimate
of 97 cents to $1.02.  Bristol-Myers said it expected earnings before one-time
items to come in at the upper end of its previously announced
outlook of $1.02 to $1.07 a share.  The agreement, which is subject to approval by the Justice
Department, also would require the company to enter into a
corporate integrity agreement with the Office of the Inspector
General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  The company spokesman said the agreement was unrelated to a
2005 settlement with the U.S. attorney in New Jersey that
involved an accounting scandal. Because of that earlier
settlement, Bristol has been operating under a deferred
prosecution agreement.  The Plavix probe involves a patent settlement that had been
designed to stave off generic competition. The deal fell
through, and the fallout ultimately contributed to the firing
of Chief Executive Peter Dolan in September.  Bristol shares were up 15 cents, or less than 1 percent, at
$25.92 in afternoon New York Stock Exchange trade.
 (Additional reporting by  Lewis Krauskopf  in New York)







