-- Coller Capital in talks to buy Ritchie fund
-- By  Dane Hamilton
-- Thu Dec 21, 2006 4:53pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/21/businesspro-ritchie-coller-dc-idUSN2120960520061221

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Coller Capital, a $3.5 billion British 
fund that buys private equity fund assets, is in exclusive 
talks to buy Ritchie Capital Management's flagship 
multi-strategy fund, people familiar with the matter said on 
Thursday. 

  Chicago-based Ritchie disclosed December 13 that it was in 
late-stage talks with a potential buyer for the troubled fund 
that it said could be valued around $1 billion, but it didn't 
name the potential buyer.  Any deal could take several weeks to complete. 
Representatives of both Coller and Ritchie declined to comment.  Coller, founded by investor Jeremy Coller, is among the 
largest of a group of "secondary" funds that buy private equity 
portfolios from corporate and institutional investors. The fund 
may spend anywhere from $1 million to $1 billion, according to 
marketing materials.  Such portfolios are often in the form of commitments to 
fund investments made by venture capital and buyout funds that 
investors want to exit.  If the deal is completed, it would be the first foray into 
hedge fund assets for Coller, a firm that is rapidly increasing 
funds under management.  Coller's latest and fourth fund has $2.6 billion in 
committed capital. The firm is currently raising a fifth fund 
that could total up to $4.5 billion, sources said.  Ritchie, which recently disclosed assets of $2.8 billion 
overall with some $730 million in its main multi-strategy fund, 
has been hit with investor redemptions amid poor performance. 
However, the fund hasn't disclosed what kinds of assets are 
included in the fund.  However, one source said a significant portion of the 
multi-strategy fund is comprised of illiquid and hard-to-value 
private company investments, an area that Coller has experience 
in buying.  Current talks envision at least some Ritchie managers 
having a significant management role in the fund after Coller 
makes an investment. But the talks are still in flux and the 
situation could change, sources said.  Earlier this month, Ritchie canceled a restructuring 
agreement with investors that would have allowed some investors 
to exit the fund in order to pursue a sale. The firm said it 
was in talks with multiple potential buyers but had settled on 
one which it didn't name.  Coller rarely discloses purchases. But in the past, it has 
purchased private equity commitments from U.K. bank Abbey 
National ANL_p.L, BT Group Plc ( BT.L ), the UK phone company 
and the Shell US Pension Trust.