-- Feng shui investors brace for year of fire on water
-- By  James Pomfret  and Ian Chua
-- Thu Dec 21, 2006 1:34am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/21/businesspro-markets-fengshui-dc-idUST13891920061221

 

 HONG KONG  (Reuters) - Forget fund flows and profit 
predictions, 2007 is about "fire sitting on water." Buy oil, 
avoid metals, and don't get your fingers burned. 

  Feng shui experts steeped in the ancient Chinese knowledge 
of geomancy, or natural energies, see a turbulent year ahead 
for both markets and mankind.  "The elements -- they are in conflict," said Raymond Lo, a 
practitioner for more than 10 years, whose office close to Hong 
Kong's Victoria Harbor is considered a repository of positive 
feng shui energies in this hotbed of capitalism.  "Because it's fire and water, and they're not in harmony. 
So therefore next year in January, it's not so peaceful."  Lo expects a stock market boom in the first half of the 
year, with Hong Kong's Hang Seng index  .HSI  likely to soar 
over 20,000 points, creating an "illusion of optimism" before a 
steep drop. The market is up 30 percent this year at 19,216 
and, along with other Asian bourses struck record highs in 
2006.  Hard data on the accuracy of feng shui forecasts and their 
performance against analyst predictions is hard to come by, but 
Hong Kongers devour books by the city's celebrity feng shui 
masters.  "I believe in it a lot," says retail investor Monica Tam, 
who reckons that in auspicious periods she can buy stocks "with 
her eyes closed" and still make money.  "Before I didn't, but with each year's experience and by 
seeing feng shui masters, I changed my mind."
  OIL AND FIRE  Another master, Edwin Ma Lai-wah, says investors should 
focus on stocks harnessing the elemental force of fire, and 
avoid those vulnerable to it.  Oil, given its combustible nature, will be a gainer. 
Construction and property firms are also in favor.  "Oil prices will rise at least 5 percent, because the fire 
will be fierce, and other sectors related to fire will also 
rise," said Ma.  Metals such as gold, steel and zinc, top performers this 
year, could be tempered in 2007.  "The fire will dominate them," he said, along with sectors 
related to gold, such as financial and banking stocks.
  WOOD IS GOOD  Fire is the 2007 force for master Lai Hon-fai as well, but 
he says wood will moderate the destructive effects.  "The wood element will have a secret effect on the fire by 
adding prosperity. So on the surface things might not be as 
good as this year, but there'll still be relatively normal 
growth."  He says the U.S. benchmark Dow Jones industrial average 
 .DJI  could drop by 5 percent, with most volatility likely in 
May and November.  Years ending with the number seven have a track record of 
stock market disaster, Lo warns, referring to the 1987 Wall 
Street crash and the Asian financial crisis that struck a 
decade later.  "You have to be very careful, the worst could be October 
... but it won't be as bad as 1997," he said.  On the political front, Lo expects strife in the Western 
world, but few flashpoints in Asia.  "There will be turbulence, there will be fights, there will 
be explosions and clashes. It's also a year of evolution."  "Asia is comparatively stable, the bad energy is in the 
North next year, so therefore America and those (Western) 
countries will more easily have natural disasters and other 
problems."  He also believes a "sick" energy might arise.  "Something we have to be careful of is sickness and health 
problems. Epidemics could come. We have to worry about avian 
flu, that kind of thing."