-- Stock options fall out of favor in U.S.: paper
-- 
-- Thu Dec 21, 2006 3:32am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/21/businesspro-usa-options-dc-idUSN2145017320061221

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Stock options in the United States are 
falling out of favor as a perk amid scandal and accounting and 
legal changes, according to an analysis reported by the Wall 
Street Journal on its Web site on Thursday. 

  In 2001, as the stock-market boom of the 1990s crested, 
nearly eight in 10 big companies were giving their directors 
options, according to a proxy analysis of 350 major companies 
conducted for The Wall Street Journal by Mercer Human Resource 
Consulting in New York, the paper said.  By last year, the figure was down to 53 percent, the paper 
said, adding that options are suffering a heavy backlash after 
big corporate scandals such as the accounting frauds at Enron 
Corp. and WorldCom Inc. and the more recent backdating scandal.  The percentage may drop to as low as 10 percent by 2010, 
because boards now consider options "somewhat problematic," the 
WSJ quoted Charles Elson, head of the Weinberg Center for 
Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware's business 
school, and a director of two public companies, as saying.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Department of 
Justice and Internal Revenue Service are investigating possible 
manipulation of stock options grants.  More than 160 companies have been investigated or are 
conducting inquiries themselves.  The main focus of the probes is backdating, or altering the 
grant dates of options to boost their value to recipients. The 
practice is illegal if done without adequate disclosure or in 
the absence of proper accounting and tax treatment.  International Business Machines Corp. ( IBM.N ) said on 
Wednesday it will cease providing an annual stock options grant 
to non-employee directors, and will instead double the cash 
amount of their yearly retainers.  The stock option plan for non-employee directors will stop 
as of January 1, IBM said. The annual retainer will rise to 
$200,000 from $100,000 as of the same date.  The move by the iconic company underscores a broader 
repudiation of options for board members two decades after many 
companies began to embrace them -- and could even accelerate 
the trend because of IBM's reputation as a bellwether of 
corporate behavior, the WSJ said.