-- Chubb to pay $17 mln in commission settlement
-- 
-- Thu Dec 21, 2006 10:12am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/21/businesspro-chubb-settlement-dc-idUSN2115581620061221

 

 NEW YORK  (Reuters) - Insurance company Chubb Corp. ( CB.N ) 
said on Thursday it will pay $17 million to settle allegations 
from attorneys general in three states that it paid secret 
commissions to win business. 

  Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said Chubb 
will adopt sweeping business reforms to settle allegations 
leveled by him and his counterparts in New York and Illinois.  "Chubb is the first insurer to agree to a comprehensive ban 
on contingent commissions -- a major milestone in the pursuit 
to end a pay-to-play culture in the insurance industry," 
Blumenthal said in a statement.  Previous settlements now prohibit AIG ( AIG.N ), Zurich 
American Insurance, ACE Ltd. and St. Paul Travelers Company 
from paying contingent commissions in specific lines of 
insurance.  Chubb said the settlement resolves all issues arising out 
of investigations into pricing practices in the 
property-casualty insurance market. Investigations by New York, 
Connecticut and Illinois officials concluded that Chubb did not 
participate in illegal bid rigging, the company said.  "Chubb acknowledged that it appears to have unknowingly 
benefited from the bid-rigging activities of others in the 
excess casualty market, which may have provided Chubb with an 
advantage in retaining certain renewal business," the company 
said.  Chubb agreed to contribute $15 million to a settlement fund 
established for the benefit of these customers. Chubb has also 
agreed to pay $2 million to help defray the costs of the 
investigations by the attorneys general.  Blumenthal said the settlement reflects that since at least 
the mid-1990s, Chubb and other insurers have paid hundreds of 
millions of dollars in undisclosed contingent commissions to 
the world's largest insurance brokers and agents.  In exchange, the brokers and agents steered new business to 
Chubb. The cost of these agreements were loaded into customers' 
premiums, inflating insurance costs, Blumenthal said.  He said in one scheme Chubb created a reinsurance company 
in Bermuda and solicited agents and brokers to become part 
owners. The agents and brokers steered policies to Chubb, which 
in turn paid the Bermuda-based company a fee to reinsure a 
portion of the claims generated by the steered policies.  Influenced by their financial interest in the Bermuda 
company, brokers and agents steered about $100 million in 
premiums to Chubb, Blumenthal said. Under the settlement, Chubb 
is banned from creating a similar entity in the future, he 
said.