-- Rite Aid posts small profit, affirms view
-- By  Jessica Wohl
-- Thu Dec 21, 2006 12:41pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/21/businesspro-riteaid-results-dc-idUSN2148068820061221

 

 CHICAGO  (Reuters) - Rite Aid Corp. ( RAD.N ), the No. 3 U.S. 
drugstore chain, swung to a small quarterly profit on Thursday, 
as its shoppers filled more prescriptions despite the influx of 
cheap generic drugs at chains like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. 
( WMT.N ). 

  Rite Aid, which plans to buy the U.S. Eckerd and Brooks 
chains from Canada's Jean Coutu Group (PJC) Inc. ( PJCa.TO ), 
also stood by its fiscal 2007 financial forecasts.  Shares of Rite Aid rose as much as 4.3 percent on the heels 
of the results before easing to a 2.2 percent gain at midday.  Rite Aid earned $1.1 million but posted a loss of 1 cent 
per share for the fiscal third quarter, ended December 2, after 
paying preferred stock dividends. A year earlier, it posted a 
net loss of $5.2 million, or 2 cents per share.  Analysts, on average, expected Rite Aid to post a loss of 1 
cent per share, according to Reuters Estimates.  "They're showing that they've stabilized their operations, 
they're getting solid revenue growth and very good expense 
control," said Morningstar analyst Mitchell Corwin.  Rite Aid has been working on improving operations within 
its pharmacies and is opening new and remodeled stores with 
in-store clinics and other amenities to appeal to shoppers.  During a conference call, President and Chief Executive 
Mary Sammons said that the $4 generic strategy from Wal-Mart 
and others has had limited impact on Rite Aid's business.  In fact, the number of prescriptions filled in comparable 
drugstores rose 2.3 percent in the quarter.  Rite Aid and its larger rivals, Walgreen Co. ( WAG.N ) and 
CVS Corp. ( CVS.N ), assert that they can attract customers with 
convenient locations and services rather than price-cutting and 
that the overwhelming majority of their customers have 
insurance to cover much of their drugs' cost.  Sammons said that Rite Aid does not yet know how the plan 
for CVS to buy pharmacy benefits manager (PBM) Caremark Rx Inc. 
CMX.N, and a higher offer from Express Scripts Inc. ( ESRX.O ), 
will affect the company. She said that Rite Aid has a good 
relationship with PharmaCare, the PBM owned by CVS, and with 
Express Scripts, and has no plans to buy a large PBM.  Shareholders are set to vote on the Jean Coutu deal in 
January. If approved, the acquisition should close shortly 
after the company's fourth quarter ends on March 3, 2007.  The deal would bring Rite Aid's store count to about 5,170, 
up from 3,322 stores at the end of the third quarter. It would 
remain the third-largest chain behind Walgreen and CVS.  On Thursday, Rite Aid said it was responding to a second 
request from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission for information 
on the Jean Coutu deal.  For fiscal 2007, Rite Aid still projects a net loss of $5 
million to a net profit of $40 million, or a loss of 7 cents 
per share to a profit of 2 cents per share; sales of $17.4 
billion to $17.65 billion; and a same-store sales increase of 2 
percent to 4 percent.  Analysts, on average, expect Rite Aid to post a profit of 
nil per share on revenue of $17.51 billion.  Rite Aid, based in Camp Hill, Pennsylvania, said it now 
plans to open 110 new and relocated stores this fiscal year, 
down from an original target of 125, due largely to delays with 
entitlement and permits.  The company previously said sales rose 4.2 percent to $4.3 
billion. Same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a 
year, rose 3.4 percent. Same-store sales rose 4.3 percent in 
the pharmacy and 1.9 percent in the front end of the store.  Shares of Rite Aid were up 10 cents to $5.47 after rising 
as high as $5.60, their highest level since April 2004.  Shares of Rite Aid had risen 54 percent from the start of 
the year through Wednesday, far outpacing shares of Walgreen, 
up 3.1 percent and CVS, up 13.2 percent. Walgreen is expected 
to report its quarterly results on Friday.