-- Nike profit helped  by smaller brands
-- By  Alexandria Sage
-- Wed Dec 20, 2006 8:23pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/21/businesspro-nike-results-dc-idUSWEN146920061221

 

 LOS ANGELES  (Reuters) - Nike Inc. ( NKE.N ) said on Wednesday 
that quarterly net profit rose nearly 8 percent, beating Wall 
Street estimates, as the world's largest athletic shoe maker 
was helped by a tax benefit and strong sales of its smaller, 
non-Nike brands like Converse shoes. 

  Shares dropped more than 1 percent in extended trade to 
$98.39, keeping most of the gains from the regular session when 
the stock rose nearly 4 percent to $99.78, its highest in at 
least 10 years on the New York Stock Exchange.  "I think expectations were high running into the final 
minutes of trading," said McAdams Wright Ragen analyst Sara 
Hasan, explaining the stock's regular-session jump and dip 
after-hours. "People get a little giddy close to earnings."  The positive results were a boost for the company, which 
has battled sluggish sales in Europe and Japan for over a year 
and was late to introduce less athletic styles of sneakers now 
popular internationally and in the United States -- worrying 
some on Wall Street that demand for Nike would falter.  Fiscal 2007 second-quarter net income rose to $325.6 
million, or $1.28 per share, compared with $301.1 million, or 
$1.14 per share, a year earlier. Revenue rose 10 percent in the 
quarter to $3.82 billion from $3.47, Nike said.  Wall Street analysts, on average, had been expecting the 
Beaverton, Oregon-based company to post earnings of $1.13 on a 
net and adjusted basis on revenue of $3.76 billion.  Earnings were boosted by 13 cents per share due to an 
agreement with the Dutch government that included a retroactive 
tax benefit.  Susquehanna Financial analyst John Shanley said an 
aggressive share repurchase program increased earnings per 
share by about 3 cents.  "The thing that really helped them a lot was their other 
businesses," Shanley said, referring to the company's non-Nike 
brands, which were led by a 50 percent rise in Converse sales. 
"It's a huge contribution to the bottom line."  The company's non-Nike brands, which include Cole Haan and 
Hurley, rose a combined 21 percent.  Nike also posted strong apparel sales and said that 
non-athletic styles of shoes were proving popular.  In a conference call with analysts, Chief Executive Mark 
Parker said a recently introduced line of shoes and accessories 
that work with Apple Computer Inc's ( AAPL.O ) iPod digital music 
player was "turning out to be huge."  Gross profit margins during the quarter were 43.4 percent, 
compared with 43.5 percent a year earlier. In recent quarters, 
analysts have said the introduction of more lower-priced, 
casual footwear to meet demand was crimping profit margins at 
Nike amid more promotions and marketing spending.  "They are showing great progress in stemming the (margin) 
decline," said Hasan. "They're still a very powerful brand. 
This does contradict a lot of those fears."  In the United States, Nike's No. 1 market, sales rose 8 
percent. In Europe, sales rose 6 percent, and in the 
Asia-Pacific region, sales jumped 15 percent, helped by 30 
percent growth in both China and Korea. Revenue in Japan rose 
over 1 percent.  Charles Denson, president of the Nike brand, said that 
challenges in Europe -- where discounting is heavy -- will take 
more time to overcome.  "Right now, no one is winning in Europe," Denson said. 
"We're not getting beat from a brand statement. I think it's 
just a tough environment."  Forward orders for footwear and apparel scheduled for 
delivery from December through April 2007 rose 7 percent, Nike 
said, while inventory rose 15 percent.  Chief Financial Officer Don Blair said he continues to 
expect sales growth for the rest of fiscal 2007 to be in the 
high single digits, with fiscal 2007 gross profit margins to be 
at or slightly below their year-ago levels.  Nike, whose shares as of Wednesday's close have risen 16 
percent since January, is valued at 15 times 2008 earnings, at 
a premium to its main rivals, Germany's Adidas AG ADSG.DE and 
Puma ( PUMG.DE ), whose forward-looking price-to-earnings ratios 
are nearly 14 and 14.6, respectively.