-- Japan's Hoya to buy Pentax in $770 mln deal
-- By Aiko Wakao
-- Thu Dec 21, 2006 5:46am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/21/businesspro-pentax-hoya-merger-deal-dc-idUST16814720061221

 

 TOKYO  (Reuters) - Japan's optical glass maker Hoya Corp. 
will buy Pentax Corp. for about 91 billion yen ($770 million) 
in shares, gaining access to profitable markets such as medical 
gear and optical lenses. 

  The deal announced on Thursday will take Hoya into business 
areas it would otherwise have been difficult to enter or 
develop itself, such as endoscopes, advanced digital cameras 
and lenses used in DVD players, where it will take on rivals 
such as Olympus Corp. and Fujifilm Holdings Corp.  "This is a positive surprise," said Hisashi Moriyama, an 
analyst at JPMorgan in Tokyo. "It's also positive for Hoya 
because it will help it enter oligopolistic markets with high 
profit margins."  It will be one of the biggest deals in Japan's precision 
equipment industry since a merger between Konica Corp. and 
Minolta Co. in 2003, and also eases concerns over possible 
takeovers of technology companies such as Pentax that have 
patents and experienced engineers.  Hoya will swap 0.158 share for each Pentax share, giving a 
10.5 percent premium based on Wednesday's closing price, or a 
valuation of 709.4 yen per Pentax share.  The companies plan to complete the integration on October 
1, 2007, and the new company will be named Hoya Pentax HD 
Corp., and headed by Hoya President Hiroshi Suzuki.  Based on the companies' earnings last year, the new firm 
would have combined annual sales of about 500 billion yen, and 
operate like a holding company with existing Pentax units 
positioned under it.  Hoya, which is more than half-owned by foreigners, is said 
to control about 85 percent of the global market for mass 
blanks, used in chip making, and more than half of the LCD 
photomask market. Photomasks are used to make liquid-crystal 
displays.  As a market leader in these key materials, and with solid 
earnings growth, Hoya has been a favorite pick among investors. 
Its market value now comes to 1.96 trillion yen, a Goliath 
compared with Pentax's 88 billion yen.  But Pentax, a pioneer in cameras used by professionals, is 
also a major player in other profitable industries, such as 
optical lenses and medical equipment. Pentax President Fumio 
Urano will become chairman of the new company's board.  "The most attractive part about Pentax was its medical 
business," Hoya's Suzuki said during a press conference. "We 
see this as a friendly and equal merger."  The market for endoscopes -- small cameras used to look at 
internal organs -- is led by Olympus, which has a global share 
of about 70 percent. But Pentax and Fujifilm, the only other 
makers, have been increasing their efforts to expand their 
market share.  Trading in Pentax and Hoya shares was halted on the Tokyo 
Stock Exchange earlier after the Nihon Keizai business daily 
reported the deal.  Prior to the halt, Pentax shares rose 7.5 percent to 690 
yen, and Hoya shares rose 0.5 percent to 4,510 yen, both 
outperforming the benchmark Nikkei average, which rose 0.22 
percent.  At the latest prices, the deal values Pentax at 712.6 yen a 
share, or 91 billion in all. That equates to about 33 times 
forecast earnings, a premium to the sector average of 25, 
according to Reuters Estimates.  Hoya was advised by UBS Securities Japan Ltd., while Pentax 
was advised by Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co.