-- Third-quarter GDP growth revised down
-- 
-- Thu Dec 21, 2006 8:32am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/21/businesspro-usa-economy-gdp-dc-idUSN2046952220061221

 

 WASHINGTON  (Reuters) - The U.S. economy grew at a slightly 
less vigorous rate during the third quarter than previously 
thought, slowed by the sharpest slump in housing activity in 
more than 15 years, the Commerce Department said on Thursday. 

  Gross domestic product or GDP, the broadest measure of 
overall economic activity within U.S. borders, expanded at a 
revised 2 percent annual rate in the July-September period 
instead of 2.2 percent estimated a month ago. That was a 
slowdown from the second quarter's 2.6 percent rate of GDP 
increase.  The revised third -quarter figure is based on updated 
information and is the government's final measure of GDP growth 
in the period. Wall Street economists had forecast it would be 
unchanged from last month's reading but the department said 
consumer spending on services was weaker than it previously 
thought.  The rate of increase in so-called core prices, which 
exclude food and energy items, slowed to 2.2 percent in the 
third quarter from 2.7 percent in the second quarter.  But on a year-over-year basis, third-quarter core prices 
rose 2.4 percent -- the strongest since a matching 2.4 percent 
in the second quarter of 1995 -- after gaining 2.2 percent 
year-over-year in the second quarter. Federal Reserve 
policy-makers, who have kept interest rates steady since 
mid-year, say they continue to remain vigilant against any 
possibility of a buildup in inflation pressures.  Spending on new-home building plunged 18.7 percent -- a bit 
steeper than the 18 percent drop estimated a month ago -- and 
was the fourth consecutive quarter in which building activity 
declined. The department said it was the steepest drop in 
spending on homebuilding since a 21.7 percent fall in the first 
quarter of 1991.  The data in the GDP report did not change the overall 
picture of a gradually slowing economy, hampered by a decline 
in the housing sector but with investments by businesses 
continuing at a solid pace.  After growing in the first quarter at a sturdy 5.6 percent 
annual rate, GDP slowed to 2.6 percent in the second quarter 
and then to 2 percent in the third quarter. Economists are 
divided whether the expansion will continue to lose steam or 
will gradually build some momentum in 2007 on the back of 
healthy corporate profits and business investment.  Business spending grew at a 10 percent rate in the third 
quarter, the same rate as estimated a month ago, more than 
twice the 4.4 percent rate posted in the second quarter.  Corporate profits after taxes increased by a revised 4.2 
percent, down modestly from last month's estimated 4.6 percent, 
a strong gain from the second quarter's meager 0.3 percent rise 
in profits.