-- Royal & Sun survives U.S. unit sale challenge
-- 
-- Thu Dec 21, 2006 5:47am EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/21/businesspro-royalsunalliance-usa-challen-idUSL2176128120061221

 

 LONDON  (Reuters) - UK insurer Royal & SunAlliance ( RSA.L ) 
has survived an attempt by disgruntled policyholders to derail 
approval of the sale of its U.S. unit, it said on Thursday, 
ending hopes the deal would complete this year. 

  A group of policyholders had sought to delay a public 
hearing by the Delaware insurance commissioner on whether to 
approve the deal to sell Britain's second-largest commercial 
insurer's U.S. unit to Arrowpoint, a company set up by RSA 
U.S.'s management.  The policyholders, who include General Motors ( GM.N ), 
DaimlerChrysler DCXGn.DE, MBIA Inc. ( MBI.N ) and Larry 
Silverstein -- who leased the World Trade Center -- wanted the 
hearing officer, Lawrence Hamermesh, to allow more time to 
probe whether the U.S. unit has the funds to pay all their 
claims, which run into hundreds of millions of dollars.  But in a ruling issued overnight on Wednesday, Hamermesh 
denied their motion to intervene in the proceedings and set a 
date of January 19, 2007 for a public hearing to decide whether 
to agree to authorize the deal.  RSA's bid to offload its troubled U.S. operation had 
already been held up when the initial hearing officer stepped 
down in late November after policyholders complained the law 
firm she worked for had acted for RSA in the past.  The legal wrangles have dashed RSA's hopes that it would be 
rid of its troubled U.S. unit by the end of the calendar year, 
but it hopes to have concluded the sale before it has completed 
its 2006 financial accounts.  "We are still hopeful the U.S. sale will be concluded in 
the 2006 financial year in terms of our reporting," an RSA 
spokesman said.  RSA said in September it had agreed to sell the U.S. unit 
for 158 million pounds, although the deal would be funded by 
future performance of the unit while RSA will provide the unit 
with a 151 million-pound capital injection as part of the deal.  The deal would effectively allow the insurer to make a 
clean exit from the United States, where it hemorrhaged 
hundreds of million of dollars due to escalating claims.  RSA is involved in a separate legal battle with General 
Motors in Michigan, where the motor giant is claiming up to 
$900 million in legal costs from asbestos-related lawsuits. The 
insurer has said the carmaker has no entitlement under policies 
it issued GM in the 1950s and 1960s to this compensation.