-- UPDATE 3-Fidelity to pay more than $42 mln in gifts probe
-- 
-- Thu Dec 21, 2006 5:33pm EST
-- http://www.reuters.com/article/2006/12/21/fidelity-gifts-idUSN2129206120061221

 

  (Adds details) 

  By Svea Herbst-Bayliss BOSTON  Dec 21 (Reuters) - Fidelity Investments said on
Thursday it will pay more than $42 million to its mutual funds
after a review found its traders had "misdirected" business to
brokers who lavished them with expensive gifts.  But the report by Fidelity's independent trustees said it
was statistically impossible to prove whether fund investors
were cheated during the gifts-and-gratuities scandal at the
world's largest mutual fund firm.  The report said Boston-based Fidelity, which manages
roughly $2.8 trillion in customer assets, had failed to
properly supervise employees who accepted gifts that included
expensive wine and sports tickets, and it concluded that
certain traders had "misdirected" order flows among brokerage
firms.  This "exposed the funds to the potential risks of adverse
publicity, loss of credibility with their principal regulators
and loss of fund shareholders," the report said.  Fidelity Chairman Edward Johnson, whose father founded the
company 60 years ago, apologized to investors in an open letter
posted on the firm's Web site. "This is not the Fidelity way,"
Johnson said.  The company will pay "$42 million plus interest to Fidelity
Mutual Funds, based on an allocation formula to be agreed to
with the Independent Trustees," Johnson said.  Johnson called the report's findings "serious charges" and
assured investors that the company had overhauled its business
to ensure it would not happen again.  The chairman's tough words earned praise from analysts even
though outsiders said it was too soon to say how the Securities
and Exchange Commission and NASD will end their probes.  "Johnson didn't mince words or sugarcoat this and we have
to give him credit for that," said Dan Lefkovitz, who follows
Fidelity at research firm Morningstar. "It is a good first step
and we'll adopt a wait-and-see approach on how the SEC and NASD
will handle this."  Jefferies Group Inc. JEF.N, a mid-size securities firm
that had courted Fidelity for business, confirmed last year
that it had given several Fidelity traders gifts, including a
private flight from Boston to Bermuda that cost $17,000.  The scandal made headlines when a dwarf named Danny Black
said he was hired to be thrown around as entertainment at a
former Fidelity trader's bachelor party in 2003 that was partly
paid for by Jefferies, raising questions about Fidelity's
otherwise sterling reputation.  People familiar with Fidelity's trading statistic said
Jefferies jumped dramatically in the ranking of brokerage
commissions it received between 2003 and 2005. Fidelity
previously said the jump was sparked by better trading
operations and services at Jefferies.  Investors, including the Massachusetts state pension fund,
expressed concern that they may have been cheated.  The news that Fidelity traders had misdirected business
stands in sharp contrast to praise the firm received for using
its muscle as a big player to drive down trading costs, pay
separately for research and other moves described as
shareholder friendly by industry analysts.  One large Fidelity investor, who asked not to be
identified, said a trader who was implicated in the scandal and
worked on the investor's account actually delivered better
prices than other traders.  Soon after Fidelity discovered the scandal, the firm asked
John Martin, a former federal judge and U.S. attorney, to head
the independent investigation and in September 2005 an economic
consultant was hired to comb through trading data from the
relevant period and put together a statistical analysis, the
company said.  "Judge Martin concluded that it was not possible to prove
statistically that traders' receipt of TEGG (travel,
entertainment, gifts and gratuities) did or did not result in
excessive execution costs for the funds," the trustees wrote.  But Martin also found that certain traders misdirected
order flows among brokerage firms on Fidelity's approved list.  Fidelity disciplined more than a dozen traders and fired
some for breaking the company's stringent guidelines on
accepting gifts.  Federal investigators, who began investigating the Fidelity
matter more than two years ago, are still negotiating with the
company, a spokeswoman said. People familiar with the matter
said regulators at one point looked into whether a brokerage
company may have paid for the dwarf's services.  Jefferies Group paid $9.7 million in early December to
settle federal charges after the Securities and Exchange
Commission found it had given nearly $2 million worth of gifts
to customers at Fidelity.



